0
(CNN)James Best, best known for his portrayal of bumbling sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane on TV's "The Dukes of Hazzard," died Monday after a brief illness.
1
He was released after posting $2 million bond and surrendering his passport.
Moschetto allegedly told officers during one buy that he needed dynamite to "blow up a building."
2
In many ways, Obama is attempting to reframe the discussion around climate change as a public health issue that affects all of us, while conceding that we don't fully understand the magnitude of the correlation between rising temperatures and impact on human health.
3
A clip of the video, which features a gay couple holding hands, got the 18+ rating from the independent TV Rain channel in Russia on Monday.
4
Or that another GOP candidate for president, Sen. Ted Cruz  of Texas is entirely comfortable with his image as a conservative firebrand.
5
Series star Jamie Bell told CNN what we can expect in the second season.
3. "Game of Thrones," 9 p.m. ET, Sunday, HBO .
"Veep," 10:30 ET, Sunday, HBO .
6
Caller:  "Hello, I'm trapped in this plane and I called my job, but I'm in this plane."
 The caller was a ramp agent who fell asleep in the plane's cargo hold.
7
"I think the Taliban thought it was an important time to release his biography to give assurances that he is alive and present," Agha told CNN in a telephone interview.
8
CNN obtained a statement from Warner Bros. Pictures that says, "Given creative differences, Warner Bros. and Michelle MacLaren have decided not to move forward with plans to develop and direct 'Wonder Woman' together."
9
At 9:36 p.m., Mr. Strong and a thief nicknamed Mr. Montana for the logo on his hooded sweatshirt roll in trash bins, one of which might have contained, according the Mirror, the 77-pound drill that bored through the reinforced seven-foot concrete wall to reach the vault.
10
(CNN)The Baltimore mother who slapped her son several times and pulled him out of a protest told CNN on Wednesday she wasn't concerned that she might be embarrassing her son.
11
Modern obsidian scalpels look nothing like the decorative flint-knapped knives of Neolithic man, often resembling their modern counterparts in everything except for the blade edge, but Dr. Green said they are a very different animal.
12
(CNN)More than 500 Houthi rebels have been killed since the start of Saudi-led military operations against Yemeni Shia fighters, a Saudi Defense Ministry official said Saturday, according to the state-run Saudi Press Agency.
13
The shift from the Pew Center results comes across demographic lines.
Results for the full poll have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
14
Holmes admits to the shootings but says he was suffering "a psychotic episode" at the time,  according to court papers filed in July 2013 by the state public defenders, Daniel King and Tamara A. Brady.
15
Of the 8 million people affected by the quake across 39 districts of Nepal, some 1.4 million need food aid, McGoldrick added.
Fast facts on earthquakes .
16
We threw stones at policemen.
We threw stones at citizens.
We let the violence stand for everything that's wrong with the things we already didn't like.
17
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
18
Paris (CNN)Six survivors of the Paris kosher supermarket siege in January are suing a French media outlet for what they call dangerous live broadcasting during the hostage-taking.
19
Charleston, South Carolina (CNN)Police officers Saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of Walter Scott to his South Carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in America.
20
The police dashcam video, released Friday, shows Cottonwood Police approaching the group of eight people -- all identified as members of the Gaver family -- around a large SUV in a Walmart parking lot on March 21.
21
Others receiving Rock Hall honors included Paul Butterfield Blues Band, early soul act The 5 Royales, singer Bill Withers, punk rockers Green Day, Lou Reed, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts and Stevie Ray Vaughan.
22
During the investigation, detectives with the Metro Nashville Police Department in Tennessee also found that the agent, 33-year-old Daniel Boykin, entered the woman's home multiple times, where he took videos, photos and other data.
23
Each time the high court has considered a case related to same-sex marriage, the pile of amicus briefs from religious groups supporting gay rights has inched a little taller, and the crowds protesting outside their grand marble steps has gradually grown more diverse.
24
The website of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. says the company was founded in 1954 and offers a "secure and cost-effective solution to store and protect important and irreplaceable personal belongings."
25
Nairobi, Kenya (CNN)University of Nairobi students were terrified Sunday morning when they heard explosions -- caused by a faulty electrical cable -- and believed it was a terror attack, the school said.
26
"We promise to restructure the Yemen military to ensure that it serves the people of Yemen," Hadi said, calling on the Houthis to withdraw, and saying that he would return to Yemen at "the right time" to rebuild the country.
27
I could have had one of them, I was told, but because I'd specified a younger child, they'd only identified one so far -- a 3-year-old.
28
William chose Kensington Palace, his own childhood home, to be the primary residence for his family, and in perhaps the most public acknowledgment of his mother's memory, he gave Kate Diana's engagement ring.
29
"For Juarez to be considered a safe city, there's a long way to go," says Sergio Meza, executive director for Plan Estrategico de Juarez, an independent organization that works to improve the city's quality of life.
30
(CNN)The Arizona police officer who slammed into an armed suspect with his patrol car told investigators he thought he was too far to take a shot at the man, so he chose the other option, CNN affiliate KVOA reported Wednesday.
31
"Besides fish, it is pretty common (for Cape Verde) to say 'our biggest richness is in music and culture,'" said Christine Semba of Womex, an international networking platform for the world music genre.
32
EXCLUSIVE:
"The contracts were with big businessmen and commanders who were giving us very little and made themselves very rich and are now living comfortably in Dubai," one truck driver tells us.
33
"I think they're quite skilled, actually, at using the media to deliver messages and to try to shape the frame of the negotiation," the official said.
34
The scene was Creve Coeur Lake outside of St. Louis early Friday morning.
Team member Devin Patel described the moment of terror: "The fish was flopping on my legs.
35
Marseille, France (CNN)Initial tests on the flight data recorder recovered from downed Germanwings Flight 9525 show that co-pilot Andreas Lubitz purposely used the controls to speed up the plane's descent, according to the French air accident investigation agency, the BEA.
36
In the police report that CNN obtained, a responding officer said that Slager said that at one point he started to chase Scott down a street.
It's not clear whether that is the Taser.
37
The night Mocha stayed in the hospital, a nervous Parkinson stayed awake reading stories about dogs ingesting watches and other objects.
38
On Tuesday, in the midst of the hostage crisis at the court house, the Turkish government imposed a gag order banning broadcasters from reporting on the Palace of Justice siege.
39
Sanaa, Yemen (CNN)Al Qaeda fighters attacked a prison in the coastal Yemeni city of Al Mukallah early Thursday, freeing at least 270 prisoners, a third of whom have al Qaeda links, a senior Defense Ministry official has told CNN.
40
"I realized so many people want to come to Europe, and I always had the feeling to disappear or to go away," Dumig said.
That's up to the viewer," Dumig said.
41
While the email does not call for any specific action to be taken by the university, Miller told CNN in an email that the group's goal is "for Dr. Oz to resign from the Columbia faculty and decide that he'd prefer a career as a TV celebrity doctor."
42
Shanghai, China (CNN)Volvo says it will begin exporting vehicles made in a factory in southwest China to the United States next month, the first time Chinese-built passenger cars will roll into American showrooms.
43
By discovering more about Pluto and its moons, New Horizons will shed light on a little-known third zone of the solar system, beyond the rocky planets and the gas giants.
44
Her case drew national attention after she started carrying a mattress around campus to protest the school's handling of the complaint, saying she hoped to show how "flawed" the university disciplinary system is when it comes to sexual misconduct cases.
45
, jurors are set to begin deliberations Tuesday in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or  the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon.
46
Daryl Hodge was with Lloyd when he said Lloyd got a text from Hernandez, asking to hang out later that night.
Hernandez was charged in the double homicide in May, and he pleaded not guilty.
47
Tokyo (CNN)A Japanese court has issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in the west of the country, citing safety concerns, a court official told CNN.
48
But it was an awful day for Sunderland's former Dutch international coach Dick Advocaat, who saw his team lose 4-1 at home against form team Crystal Palace.
49
5. "Broadchurch," 10 p.m. ET Wednesday, BBC America .
Another murder could be solved -- and the trial based on the events of season 1 resolved -- by the end of this finale.
50
Violence has plunged well over half of all Syrians into such destitution that they are in dire need of survival aid, the United Nations says, as food rations are being cut for lack of donations.
51
Santana recalled the moments when he recorded a roughly three-minute video of North Charleston Police officer Michael Slager shooting Walter Scott as Scott was running away Saturday.
52
The police union said it's 100% behind the officers and compared protesters to a lynch mob, accusing them of calling for charges against officers without knowing the facts of the case or giving them a day in court.
53
(The Hollywood Reporter)The original cast of Twin Peaks is backing David Lynch in his salary standoff with Showtime.
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter
54
Sustainable development is a doctrine that says: Let us once again place the economy on a true moral foundation and we'll keep greed within bounds, ensuring the economic growth is combined with social fairness and environmental sustainability.
55
Garissa University College began in the 1990s as Garissa Teacher Training College before evolving, by government decree, into its current form as a degree-granting institution in 2011.
56
And throughout the following days, weeks and months, Park Eun-mi waited to see if one of them was her 16-year-old daughter, Huh Da-yun.
57
(CNN)The bad news for Rio de Janeiro ahead of the 2016 Olympics keeps coming after scores of dead fish appeared in the Rodrigo de Freitas lagoon.
58
"All the family loves him, and his kids loved him."
Regardless of why Walter Scott ran, "running from an officer doesn't result in the death penalty," Stewart said.
59
There are signs Western recruits have risen to high levels in the ISIS organization, with their influence reflected in the latest propaganda, counterterrorism and intelligence officials said.
60
As the world learns more about Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot on Germanwings Flight 9525, it is readily apparent that this young man had psychiatric issues far beyond clinical depression.
61
If a senior person is pouring -- this usually pertains to hard liquor only -- others shouldn't drink until someone has poured the senior a shot.
62
Mexican federal police seized Alondra Luna Nuñez on Friday in the colonial city of Guanajuato, in central Mexico, believing she was the daughter of a Mexican national living in Houston.
63
One other son died in 1958 and another died in 1973.
In its list of richest American families, Forbes estimated the Gettys' net worth to be about $5 billion.
64
America's major fast-food chains, retailers and department stores use "just-in-time" scheduling to maximize profit, which in turn creates unstable and stressful work environments for low-wage workers.
65
That means that by 1967, when the Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of such laws, bans against interracial marriage had been officially part of the American "definition" of marriage for over 300 years.
66
Since then, "drinking a chalice of poison" has became part of Iranian political lexicon, and many analysts have asked whether Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Khomeini's successor, would raise the chalice and surrender to demands by the West to end Iran's nuclear program.
67
Major General Hassan Firouzabadi, the Chief of Staff of Iran's armed forces and a man who is close to Rouhani, told CNN he hopes the U.S. and Iran can work closer together to fight ISIS in Iraq.
68
On the feature side, the franchise featured 1992's "The Muppet Christmas Carol," 1996's "Muppet Treasure Island" and 1999's "Muppets From Space," the latter two of which were co-produced by Disney, who acquired rights to the Muppets in 2004 and formed The Muppets Studio.
69
Through the program of regular weigh-ins, peer support and accountability, not only did Nidetch lose 72 pounds, but she inspired millions more to shed pounds too.
70
Jerome R. Hunt, of Hayward, California, climbed the fence on the south side of the White House complex about 10:25 p.m., said Brian Leary with the United States Secret Service.
71
Boardwine's friend, Joyce Bruce, had used his sperm and a turkey baster to get pregnant.
The baby was born, and Boardwine says he learned about the baby's arrival from someone else.
72
(CNN)The mother of a quadriplegic man who police say was left in the woods for days cannot be extradited to face charges in Philadelphia until she completes an unspecified "treatment," Maryland police said Monday.
73
NASA says that the project has four main goals -- namely, to search for the first galaxies formed after the Big Bang, find out how galaxies evolved, observe the birth of stars and planets and investigate the potential for life on other planets .
74
Though not elaborating on her beliefs, Ailina Tsarnaeva has said she believes, as her mother does, that her surviving brother Dzhokhar and her dead brother Tamerlan are innocent.
75
But as the world's gaze has shifted they have continued to meet the Nigerian government's silence with cries of: "Bring Back Our Girls, now and alive!"
76
A judge on Tuesday rejected the argument presented by El-Awa and court-appointed lawyer El-Sayed Hamed that the court had no jurisdiction.
77
And her book on Iraq became required reading for many military leaders trying to understand the country.
Her book on Iraq became required reading for many military officers.
78
"Alternatively, if you don't agree or if your sword is a little bit rusty, Mr. Farage, we can meet for a different kind of duel -- a duel with words in a TV studio in the run-up to the elections," Zylinski suggested.
79
(CNN)The greater adjutant stork is a majestic bird.
Bouldry lives and works inside the La Chureca landfill in Nicaragua, one of the largest landfills in the world.
80
Hospital gowns have gotten a face-lift after some help from fashion designers like these from Patient Style and the Henry Ford Innovation Institute.
81
Dr. Anthony Moschetto, 54, pleaded not guilty Wednesday to criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges in connection to what prosecutors called a plot to take out a rival doctor on Long Island.
82
You have to decide what is worth more for you - experience or financial stability.
I'm at a point in my life where experience is worth more."
83
CNN spoke to 18-year-old Burns about what motivated him to make his now-viral video.
Within an hour of the trailer going up, I went to work on the edit.
84
They want their fellow lawmakers at the state and national level to acknowledge what most of the world, including the citizens of the United States, have known for a long time: Marijuana is a medicine, that should be studied and treated like any other medicine.
85
Looking down at the blood I was just shocked that much blood could come out of someone," she said.
"I remember thinking I was going to die, that no one could go through that much pain.
86
(CNN)The cast of "The Breakfast Crew" escaped from Principal Richard Vernon 30 years ago, but a draft script of the 1985 teen classic has just been found in a filing cabinet in the school district where it was filmed, the Chicago Tribune reported.
87
Mainzer, working at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, discovered Asteroid 316201 in June 2010, which gave her the right to name it.
88
"If the Windsor majority votes in favor of marriage equality, the ruling will be one of the most momentous decisions of the Roberts court," said Judith E. Schaeffer of the Constitutional Accountability Center, which is advocating for same-sex marriage.
89
Two staffers from the agency are scheduled to meet the West Coast-based ship in San Diego on Monday.
The ship was built in 2001 and refurbished in 2011.
90
The suspects were associates of 18-year-old Nadun Haider, who was killed while stabbing officers at a police station in September, police said.
91
The caldera is a volcanic crater some 40- by 25-miles large, left behind when 240 cubic miles of debris ruptured out of the Earth and into the air during volcanic discharge some 630,000 years ago, USGS says.
92
(CNN)"Star Wars" is once again back in our lives, the Burger-King couple helped us believe love can be found in fast food, and Mindy Kaling's brother had a shocking announcement.
93
Taylor walked out the door and into the detention center's parking lot, where, authorities said, he clicked the correctional officer's key fob to find the Chevy Equinox.
94
(CNN)Andrew Getty, the 47-year-old grandson of J. Paul Getty, died Tuesday afternoon in his home in Los Angeles, according to a statement from his mother and father.
95
They would say don't move, don't cry or we will beat you.
 
They said to us we are going to do to you what we did to her," Hanan says.
96
Bates, 73, was working as a reserve deputy for the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office on April 2 when he was involved the arrest of Eric Harris in a weapons sting operation.
97
Two Saudi border guards were killed Friday after an exchange of fire with Houthi rebels along the kingdom's frontier with Yemen, officials told CNN.
98
More than 100,000 Yemeni civilians have fled their homes since fighting began, and OCHA, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, estimates that 15.9 million people here are in need of assistance.
99
Blair said he shared some of Booker's views, knew of his plans to detonate a vehicle bomb at Fort Riley and loaned him money to rent storage space, according to the FBI's criminal complaint.
100
(CNN)It's obvious that Tom Brady's love for his wife, model Gisele Bundchen, will never go out of fashion.
Supermodel Gisele Bundchen struts her stuff a final time .
101
The Obama administration and U.S. defense officials maintain the primary purpose of positioning additional U.S. warships in the region is to ensure the free flow of commerce through established international shipping lanes and to ensure maritime security in the region.
102
Robby Mook, Clinton's soon-to-be campaign manager, distributed a "values statement" at the meeting that outlined what the campaign will stand for, what their goals are and how they plan to win -- something Clinton failed to do in 2008.
103
It would be the first car made in China to hit U.S showrooms and may pave the way for Chinese brands to shake up the U.S. market like Japanese and Korean car manufacturers did decades earlier.
104
(CNN)Sarah Brady, who with her husband, James Brady, pushed for stricter gun control laws, including the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, died Friday, her family said.
105
(CNN)A TV series based on the 1999 sci-fi film "Galaxy Quest" is in the works at Paramount Television.
©2015
All rights reserved.
106
On March 26, Thomas purchased a ticket to Barcelona, with a March 29 departure and an April 15 return to the United States, the complaint said.
107
The Clown Prince of Crime will appear in 2016's "Suicide Squad," the first movie featuring the best-known comic book villain, where (as far as we know anyway), there is no Batman present.
108
No one was injured in the shooting, and no arrests have been made, Atlanta Police spokeswoman Elizabeth Espy said.
CNN's Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
109
(The Hollywood Reporter)Ben Powers, who played Thelma's (BernNadette Stanis) husband Keith Anderson on the final season of the classic CBS sitcom "Good Times," has died.
110
(CNN)Five militants from the Kurdistan Workers' Party were killed and another was wounded in clashes with Turkish armed forces in eastern Turkey, the country's military said Saturday.
111
Here's the plot synopsis, according to Den of Geek: . "A bizarre murder brings together three law-enforcement officers and a career criminal, each of whom must navigate a web of conspiracy and betrayal in the scorched landscapes of California.
112
(CNN)Authorities identified and charged a man Monday in connection with the discovery of human remains in a duffel bag in Cambridge, Massachusetts, over the weekend.
113
(CNN)Anthony Doerr's "All the Light We Cannot See," a novel centered on the World War II bombing of St.-Malo, France, and two characters on opposite sides of the war, won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction Monday.
114
New York  (CNN)New York's iconic Statue of Liberty and Liberty Island will reopen to the public Saturday -- one day after a bomb threat that led to its evacuation was declared unfounded, officials said.
115
Last week the 40-year-old Ulsterman, who has won an astonishing 4,356 races, announced he would retire if he won the Grand National for the second time in his career.
116
Dr. Oz was able to transition their critique of his apparent disregard for science on his program into an easily vanquished attack on his straightforward stand for consumers' right to accurate product labeling.
117
The Federal Aviation Administration initially reported a pressurization problem and said it would investigate.
The plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes.
118
Rome (CNN)Muslims who were among migrants trying to get from Libya to Italy in a boat this week threw 12 fellow passengers overboard -- killing them -- because the 12 were Christians, Italian police said Thursday.
119
The selection of Bullock, the oldest woman to receive top honors in the history of the list, is a sign that beauty knows no age, say some.
120
And yet, if we really commit ourselves to having the punishment fit the crime, if we rightly reserve the death penalty for the most heinous crimes and criminals, surely the Boston Marathon bomber stands among the worst of the worst.
121
"I knew that my whole world was over, and I thought I was going to die because I never had been so sick," Sideri said.
Then he moved on to snorting heroin.
122
Darla Meredith said Ellie has struggled with friendships since elementary school, but a special program at Eastern called Best Buddies had made things easier for her.
123
(CNN)Noelle Velentzas, 28, couldn't understand why U.S. citizens like herself were traveling overseas to wage jihad when they could simply "make history" at home by unleashing terrorist attacks, according to a federal criminal complaint unsealed Thursday.
124
Lloyd met Hernandez while dating Shaneah Jenkins, the sister of Hernandez's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins.
 Prosecutors call him the "muscle man" for Hernandez.
125
Exit polls in 2014 showed that men voted for Republicans over Democrats by a 16-point margin, and women voted for Democrats by only a four-point margin.
126
The new miniseries from Mark Burnett and Roma Downey is one of six shows to watch this week.
2. "Mad Men," 9 p.m. Sunday, AMC .
We've arrived at the end, "Mad Men" fans.
127
"So very proud of you, my hero," tweeted daughter Kendall Jenner.
 "Let's empower people like Bruce all over the world by being loving & not mean.
128
Panama City Beach, Florida (CNN)A third person has been arrested in the case of an alleged spring break gang rape that was videotaped on a crowded stretch of Panama City Beach, the Bay County, Florida, Sheriff's Office said Wednesday.
129
Military and police forces were helping evacuate more than 4,400 residents, the Interior Ministry said.
The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region.
130
As soon as we left the house, the first missile fell right by it and then a second on it.
Qassim and her family fled Birim at first light, piling in with three other families.
131
(CNN)A U.S. Army soldier was killed Wednesday in an attack in eastern Afghanistan by an Afghan National Army gunman, a U.S. military official told CNN, shortly after an American official met with a provincial governor.
132
(CNN)It was a busy week for trending stories.
Seriously.
Here's one way to announce you're pregnant: reference "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air."
133
Steep slopes and small winding roads through deep river valleys greet us as we make our way to a town where Nepalese and international medical teams are treating the injured, in much less than ideal circumstances.
134
In light of that, listen to conservative former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, a potential 2016 candidate describing  conservatives' discomfort with same-sex marriage: "It's like asking someone who's Jewish to start serving bacon-wrapped shrimp in their deli."
135
While Baltimore police say five of the six officers involved in the arrest have provided statements to investigators, the department has not released details of what the officers said or how Gray might have suffered the fatal injury.
136
(CNN)A group of six young Minnesota men conspired to sneak into Syria and join ISIS "by any means necessary," federal prosecutors said Monday.
137
Last week, people were being evacuated to Puerto Montt on 22 buses and military trucks, the Interior Ministry said.
The eruption is a first for many in the region.
138
Presumably, he's including all of his touring, with all bands, as Billboard could find only 29 states in which he has performed as Jack White.
139
"I have no intention to have sex with any of my students or any women," said Choudhury, who said he's been married to his wife for more than 30 years.
140
Now that will be able to choose the skin tones for each human emoji, and that will also include ... Santa Claus.
 In fact, thanks to Apple, we may even see Brown Santa emojis this December.
141
"We promise to restructure the Yemen military to ensure that it serves the people of Yemen," Hadi said, calling on the Houthis to withdraw, and saying that he would return to Yemen at "the right time" to rebuild the country.
142
Hermann plans to return to Malik Ghat and looks forward not only to the opportunity to photograph different kinds of flowers -- as the range varies based on the seasons -- but also to the chance to present the flower sellers featured in "Flower Man" with their portraits.
143
Cheryl's birthday challenge was meant to test the better high-school students competing in the Singapore and Asian Schools Math Olympiad, held April 8.
144
Until recently, the only mast cell disease doctors had identified was mastocytosis, which is characterized by "abnormal proliferation and activation" of the body's mast cells -- meaning there are way too many and they act in strange ways.
145
Now the Canadian singer has revealed to People magazine that she was bedridden for five months after contracting Lyme disease.
146
But new research released by the Anne Frank House shows that Anne and her older sister, Margot Frank, died at least a month earlier than previously thought.
147
The celebrity couple announced the arrival of their son, Silas Randall Timberlake, in statements to People.
It is the first baby for both.
148
Ryan Calhoun and Delonte Martistee, students at Troy University, were arrested and charged with sexual battery by multiple perpetrators, according to a statement from the Bay County, Florida, Sheriff's Office.
149
• On March 9, Stanislav Melnik, a former member of parliament with the Party of Regions and the manager of several businesses in the separatist-minded eastern city of Donetsk, was found dead in his apartment near Kiev.
150
Significantly, it is those same national borders that demarcate the extent of Indonesia's leaders ability -- or even desire, perhaps -- to use their capacity for state-sanctioned violence.
151
The '90s are so coming back .
Lest we forget how much sparkle she can bring into our lives, check out this collection of Mariah Carey throwing shade.
152
April 8, 2015 .
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
153
While the U.S. policy of not negotiating with terrorists would remain in place, the State Department is reviewing how it works to secure the release of American hostages held by terrorists abroad, she said.
154
Kathy Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a prominent business coalition, predicted that Clinton would be able to maintain her relationship with Wall Street without alienating the liberal base.
155
The veterinary hospital's Good Samaritan Fund committee awarded some money to help pay for the dog's treatment, but Mellado has set up a fundraising page to help meet the remaining cost of the dog's care.
156
PAGASA meteorologist Shelley Ignacio predicts Maysak -- which is called Chedeng in the Philippines -- will bring heavy rains to Luzon starting on Friday, according to the state-run Philippines News Agency.
157
We know how to look," she said.
"We are not talking about little green men," Stofan said at the panel.
And, he added, who knows what that life will look like?
158
"The best chance the southern Philippines has ever had for peace may now be in jeopardy," read the report, which argued that the Mamapasano fiasco was the result of a misguided emphasis on killing Marwan.
159
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
TRANSCRIPT .
160
Washington (CNN)Supreme Court justices appeared divided Tuesday during historic arguments over the constitutionality of gay marriage, with Justice Anthony Kennedy returning to a familiar role as the court's pivotal vote.
161
As Green learned how doctors would open up his chest to repair his heart, he considered the possibility he may never play basketball again.
162
Even though he looked calm, defense lawyer Tamara Brady started her question and answer session with jurors Tuesday by expression concerns about Holmes getting a fair and impartial trial, saying "I'm nervous" and "my client is nervous."
163
Agyare's first visit to see the girls -- students at education project Achievers Ghana -- was in January 2014.
I thought we had progressed as a nation.
164
Camelot Music.
Wherehouse Music.
On Saturday, hundreds of music retailers will hold events to commemorate Record Store Day, an annual celebration of, well, your neighborhood record store.
165
With the United States showing the way, and with cooperation from other countries, businesses, investors, cities and citizens, we can achieve a prosperous and secure future for all.
166
Unfortunately, it seems like too many in President Barack Obama's administration have forgotten that the only reason this terrorist-supporting state came to the negotiating table in the first place was because of tough sanctions imposed by the U.S. Congress.
167
"The Secretary-General appeals to the government of Indonesia to refrain from carrying out the execution, as announced, of 10 prisoners on death row for alleged drug-related crimes," a spokesman for Ban said, according to various reports.
168
Stores have created fashion lines inspired by the show; there have been "Mad Men" cocktails and "Mad Men" museum exhibits and even "Mad Men" presidential references.
169
The 64-year-old Nevada native, who has refereed five of Mayweather's bouts and seven of Pacquiao's, was described as "the best referee out there" by Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach.
170
We take our place on the floor and slowly, the world of camel racing begins to open up to us.
Once lunch is over, we head to the track for the racing to begin.
171
Hong Kong (CNN)There
's a booming black market in Hong Kong, but it's not for fake Apple Watches, or the iPhone.
Were they worth it?
172
According to the investigation memo, the trainer said that if he was honest, he would have said Bates needed remedial training, and that the reserve deputy was "not really good at traffic stops or operations."
173
Jerusalem (CNN)The Israeli military conducted airstrikes Sunday night in the area between Israel and Syria, targeting a group of militants allegedly trying to plant a bomb on the Israeli border.
174
There are no definitive records, but the 15 Americans on board our ship said they had counted 75 more families waiting in Aden port who couldn't afford an "exit/transport" fee being charged to depart Aden.
175
The officials from Ibb's governor's office said the Al Hamza military base was targeted because Houthis have been sending reinforcements from Ibb to nearby provinces.
176
Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015 .
The CNN Heroes team traveled to Surkhet and talked to Doyne about her work and the community she supports.
177
Transport NSW, which provides public transportation throughout the New South Wales area, issued a warning that many public services across the region have been disrupted because of the weather.
178
Hong Kong (CNN)Cathay Pacific was forced to cancel a scheduled flight from London to Hong Kong after one of the pilots was arrested after trying to board the airliner with knives in his luggage.
179
They will also include the recalled products' use-by dates, and the geographical areas affected.
Healthy people are at low risk for disease, but it can happen.
180
Abdullahi's father, Abdullahi Daqare, a government chief in Mandera in northern Kenya, told CNN that his son was missing.
Daqare is a Kenyan Somali, he said.
181
Sao Paulo, Brazil (CNN)Brazilian supermodel Gisele Bundchen sashayed down the catwalk at Sao Paulo Fashion Week on Wednesday night in an emotional farewell to the runway.
182
Now, the nets say you should stick your lips in a shot glass, suck all the air out and then pull it off to reveal your all-new plump kisser, just like Kylie Jenner.
183
Of course, that's not to say progress hasn't been made.
This work is critical, and it deserves our attention and additional resources to continue to progress.
184
Takashima, who comes from the city of Yokohama, told police that he began paying for sex with women in 1988 when he went to work at a Japanese school in Manila.
185
Maybus said new staff will be put into place to help streamline, coordinate and champion unmanned systems in "all domains."
186
Riyadh has tried hard to muster a military coalition that is willing to dispatch ground troops but its effort has so far been nothing short of a fiasco.
187
But also kinda not, since it means a party can easily win power without winning the most votes.
That's because Britain's elections are run on a "first-past-the-post" basis.
188
Only by making programs national could policymakers ensure that state and local government officials (particularly Southern Democrats who had little taste for giving benefits to African-Americans) could not distribute benefits only to certain portions of the population.
189
"We've never seen anything like this in boxing, and I don't think in any sporting event," Bob Arum, Pacquiao's promoter, told CNN, .
190
In an hour-long labor captured by 10 cameras and streamed live by Animal Planet, Katie gave birth to a not-so-little baby (about 6 feet tall) early Friday evening.
191
"I don't want to think about the epidermis, but some people are thinking that way," Allison said, suggesting that Lynch's confirmation vote has been delayed because Lynch is African-American.
192
Afghan security forces are cautiously making advances in the fight in order to avoid civilian casualties, according to the press statement.
193
Instead, there was Bob Barker, who hosted the TV game show for 35 years before stepping down in 2007.
194
Who is worse: Britt McHenry for childishly mocking a confrontational tow employee's bad teeth, or the Twitter masses who call for justice and "the return of class" -- who express views like, "Part of me feels bad for Britt McHenry.
195
"He was struggling before, and he is a trouper," Moore said.
King, 89, has used various models of Gibson guitars over the years, and named each one of them Lucille.
196
Some days, none of his relatives is there.
He glances at Lloyd's relatives.
On the last day of testimony when his defense rests its case, he smiles at relatives.
197
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
ROLL CALL .
198
Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people, and others with weakened immune systems, the FDA says.
199
Freshman Justise Winslow led Duke with 19 points while national freshman of the year Jahlil Okafor had 18 points, 10 of which came in the first half.
200
In her new book, "Heretic: Why Islam Needs a Reformation Now", Ayaan Hirsi Ali argues that extremism isn't caused by political circumstances, but by Islam itself.
201
(CNN)Novak Djokovic extended his current winning streak to 17 matches after beating Thomas Berdych 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in the rain-interrupted final of the Monte Carlo Masters.
"I tried my best but it was not good enough today.
202
Kenyan authorities had intelligence beforehand that a university in Garissa could be attacked, yet the country's rapid response team was stuck in Nairobi for hours after the massacre awaiting transport, a police source said Monday.
203
"Galaxy Song" song was written by Python member Eric Idle, along with John Du Prez, and is "an intricate and informative lecture on the enor-mity of the Universe fashioned into a bewitching and, above all, highly amusing pop song," according to the comedy troupe's site.
204
(CNN)"It's showtime!"
SNL cast members Taran Killam and Bobby Moynihan begged the actor with a song to "play" Batman and Beetlejuice with them.
205
You may want to skip the next video -- but for the rest of us, the thrill of watching is the next best thing to being there.
Watch the video: .
206
But McGurk said that Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is making progress getting Sunni tribes to support a planned Iraqi offensive against ISIS in Anbar province in the coming weeks.
207
(CNN)With help from some filmmakers, 102-year-old Alice Barker went back in time.
There were motion pictures made of Barker, but she had never seen any of them.
208
Of these, Nigerians are splashing out the most cash when it comes to bricks and mortar in the British capital -- typically spending between $22 and $37 million on securing a property, according to luxury property agents Beauchamp Estates.
209
CNN asked Afzal Ashraf, a counterinsurgency specialist and consulting fellow at the Royal United Services Institute to give us a steer on what this new data tells us about the fight against ISIS in Iraq.
210
Last year, meanwhile, the Abe administration tried (and failed) to get the United Nations to partially retract their authoritative 1996 report, which called on Japan to apologize to the victims and pay reparations to survivors who had been forced into sex slavery.
211
We're going to keep organizing and keep fighting until the workers at McDonald's, and every other fast-food restaurant, get what makes sense for their families and our communities: a $15 per hour wage and a path to form a union without interference or retaliation.
212
Shouldn't a man who is willing to take on all parental responsibilities be similarly entitled to bring his embryos to term even if the woman objects?"
213
But in recent years, its 12-man crew has joined Italy's effort to rescue migrants coming from Africa and the Middle East.
We put him in a body bag.
214
(The Hollywood Reporter)A
"Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice" will be released on March 25, 2016 and stars Affleck as Batman and Henry Cavill as Superman.
215
On his website, AlmostBlack.com, Chokal-Ingam says he hatched the plan in 1998 after realizing in college that his grades weren't going to be good enough to get into med school as an Indian-American.
216
The attack, which James said was simpler than "Dark Seoul," came just a few days after Sony Pictures said their systems has been "hacked," another attack the South Korean authorities blamed on North Korea.
217
And it's not just in Kenya.
Last year in Garissa, James Ndonye lost five of his 11 teachers amid rising fears of an Al-Shabaab attack on the school.
218
In Australia and the Philippines, jihad-related threats or plots to decapitate have allegedly been made in the past seven months; recently, a Muslim convert in London was found guilty of a plot to behead a British soldier, inspired by the Rigby murder.
219
Petty Holdings, which operates the Exotic Driving Experience at Walt Disney World Speedway, released a statement Sunday night about the crash.
220
Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke tried to persuade jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot.
221
"Prince Harry has trained and served alongside Australian armed forces on operational tours to Afghanistan; he has met them during the Invictus Games; and even trekked to the South Pole with a couple of Australian soldiers," the spokesman said ahead of the visit.
222
And if Hillary or Jeb were to win two presidential terms, then in the 44 years from 1981 to 2025, 28 will have had a Clinton or a Bush in the White House.
223
So why try to land one?
SpaceX says it will keep trying and, after it masters landing at sea, hopes to someday land rockets on the ground.
224
The Canadian businessman said he and members of the soccer team kept a close eye on the suspect as the plane landed to make sure he did not threaten other passengers.
225
(CNN)When Hong Kong police answered a call in the early hours of a Saturday morning last November, they encountered a grisly scene and an alleged crime that shocked the city.
226
That's the same Keystone XL pipeline from Canada that the State Department all but endorsed, concluding after a five-part analysis that ran to 17,000 pages that the project's environmental impact would be minimal.
227
(CNN)In her 40 years living in Rochelle, Illinois, Cathy Olson had never seen a tornado that big.
 My mom said this is the first time she's ever seen a tornado."
228
Last year, the same day Genevieve Kelley was arrested, authorities in Texas announced that in an unrelated case, remains found were confirmed to be those of another fugitive featured on the program, Kevin Patrick Stoeser.
229
"The Alpine Ascents International Mt. Everest climbing team was in the icefall and is now safe at Camp 1, avoiding the avalanche that hit Base Camp," the Seattle-based company reported on Facebook.
230
"He took my Taser."
It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body.
231
(CNN)Pope Francis will visit Cuba on his way to the United States in September, the Vatican said Wednesday -- a trip that will come months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two countries.
232
After she was abandoned at birth, long-time Hong Kong expats Tina and Rog Thomas began fostering Mui, when she was just one and a half years old.
233
"Don McLean's manuscript of 'American Pie' achieved the 3rd highest auction price for an American literary manuscript, a fitting tribute to one the foremost singer-songwriters of his generation," Christie's Tom Lecky said in a statement.
234
Jones, who resigned her job as a Mary Kay cosmetics sales director to run for office, said in her ward, she heard the same complaints from a 65-year-old black man as she did from his white peers.
235
"We will not abandon hope," Gunness said.
 "We will not submit to pessimism, because to abandon hope would be to abandon the people of Yarmouk.
236
They said his effort was a pale imitation of the legendary drinking exploits of former Prime Minister Bob Hawke, who is credited with drinking two and a half pints in 11 seconds.
237
Schaefer was sentenced to 18 years in prison for battering von Wiese-Mack to death in room 317 of the St. Regis Bali Resort.
238
The woman pretended to be going to Jos and lingered around the bus, which was ‎waiting to fill up with passengers, according to Falalu Tasiu, a grocer near the bus station.
239
On Monday, more than 50 people died in the port city of Aden alone, where Houthis and their allies are battling troops loyal to Hadi on the ground, Agence France-Press reported.
240
The Vatican says Pope Francis may add another leg to his trip to the United States this September, visiting Cuba just months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two nations.
241
It's an important part of developing a relationship with a patient, he says, and there have been countless times when he's found real problems during an exam just like the one he gave to Vega.
242
"While many Australians only know Richard Benaud as the voice of cricket, we should not forget that in his day he was a cricketer with few equals.
243
And while some may find the notion of handwritten notes quaint, as social media and smartphones begin to replace handwriting, Bentley says she finds the note collection an interesting way for an artist to explore people's lives.
244
Yet if that policy goal remains in place, then it must be acknowledged that the Saudi war on Yemen will not only undermine the U.S. aim of preventing al Qaeda from making Yemen a safe haven, but also undermine broader U.S. efforts in Yemen.
245
A lunar eclipse happens when the sun, Earth and moon form a straight line in space, with the Earth smack in the middle.
 The first was on April 15, 2014.
246
Tokyo (CNN)The operator of the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has given up trying to recover a robotic probe after it stopped moving inside one of the reactors.
247
But the bigger courtroom fight will probably unfold in Los Angeles, where the district attorney filed a first-degree murder charge against Durst last month.
248
Scott never reappears on the dash cam video, but a witness later takes video of the officer shooting Scott several times in the back as he is running away.
249
Other standout items include a straw hat worn by Leigh in a number of scenes in the movie and a gray wool suit worn by Clark Gable as his character, Rhett Butler, kicks down the door of Scarlett O'Hara's boudoir.
250
"Lane's not physically here with us, of course, but that picture represents to us that he is always watching over us and he will always be there for us no matter what," Sharry said.
251
(CNN)The leader of Yemen's Houthi rebels vowed not to back down on Sunday as a top Saudi military official claimed weeks of airstrikes had significantly weakened the Shiite group.
252
Kinnelon Police Officers Mark Ehrenburg and Ricky Ferriola cut the seat belt from her, then dragged the woman's limp body away from the crash to start emergency medical care.
253
At the premiere Wednesday night in Hollywood, Walker's co-star and close friend Vin Diesel gave a tearful speech before the screening, saying "This movie is more than a movie."
254
In 2007, the mall changed name from "South China Mall" to "New South China Mall, Living City" and a revitalization plan was drawn up by current owners the Founders Group, a conglomerate set up by Peking University, and its subsidiary PKU Founder.
255
On Thursday's edition of the popular game show, model Manuela Arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game for a new Hyundai Sonata.
It's been a busy week for "The Price Is Right."
256
I suppose that will get the officer to the frisk of the pocket ... assuming he is a connoisseur of knife clips and can differentiate them from hair clips, chip clips, etc.
257
The Adventure Time plane is the result of a partnership between Thai Airways subsidiary Thai Smile and Cartoon Network Amazone, a new water park near the Thai resort city of Pattaya featuring attractions based on shows that appear on the Turner Broadcasting System channel.
258
Abnormalities are common in normal people, as we learned when Whole-body CT scanning was in vogue a decade ago (thankfully, only briefly).
259
First, families should be granted security clearances by the U.S. government for the purpose of having classified information disclosed to them only about their captive loved ones.
260
"My strength is I can actually talk to people."
A humanoid has human-like characteristics such as arms, legs and a head -- but is designed to look like a robot.
261
In a statement, Patrick Louchouarn, the vice president for academic affairs and chief academic officer at Texas A&M Galveston Campus, said the entire class will not be failed.
262
"Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders, forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea," he said.
263
Damani's alarmed family came running, including his older brother, 15-year-old Rasheed Chiles, police said.
"I heard he was trying to pick his brother up.
264
Promoting the false dichotomy between protecting religion versus protecting equality serves no one.
The message can be nondiscriminatory and religion can be protected.
265
(CNN)The quaint town of Dunblane, Scotland, has been set abuzz by the wedding of tennis legend Andy Murray to his long-term girlfriend, Kim Sears.
266
MP Shir Wali Wardak says: "I don't think ISIS fighters from Syria and Iraq have come here to Afghanistan -- but hardcore Taliban members who have understood that the Taliban name is dying have changed the color of their flags from white to black in order to stay alive.
267
On Friday, more than 35 years after frenzied media coverage of his case horrified parents everywhere, a New York jury will again deliberate over a possible verdict against the man charged in his killing, Pedro Hernandez.
268
Abdallah reports the ducklings and their mom had crossed heavily trafficked street, and some restaurant patrons stopped on the sidewalk to corral them.
269
"Officers have battered dozens of residents who suffered broken bones -- jaws, noses, arms, legs, ankles -- head trauma, organ failure, and even death, coming during questionable arrests.
270
(CNN)An unmanned Russian spacecraft originally bound for the International Space Station will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere after flight controllers lost contact with it, American astronaut Scott Kelly said Wednesday.
271
Officials have yet to locate records showing what training Bates completed, said Maj. Shannon Clark of the sheriff's office.
Instead, it was a gunshot.
272
But the story began to unravel almost immediately when Washington Post reporter T. Rees Shapiro took a closer look, leading Rolling Stone to back away from the story and request a review by the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
273
More like a mile, said Jamie Moore, head of emergency management in Johnson County, Texas.
The one to the E of Rio Vista is a large, damaging tornado," the NWS tweeted.
274
Osama Mehmood, a spokesman for al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent, said that Farouq and another top figure, Qari Abdullah Mansur, were killed in a January 15 drone strike in Pakistan's Shawal Valley.
275
To scan the surroundings, CyArk uses a portable, eye-safe laser device based on a technology called Lidar -- a portmanteau of the words light and radar.
276
In addition, out of more than 2,000 DNA samples collected from the crash site, lab workers have isolated 150 DNA profiles, said Brice Robin, Marseilles prosecutor.
277
Woolfenden, the biomedical researcher, recalled seeing Martin and his mother shortly after the good Samaritan took Woolfenden's son, Leo, to safety.
278
The migrant crisis that has suddenly drawn hundreds of journalists to Sicily has been brewing for years, but in the past 10 days, with as many as 1,600 deaths in the Mediterranean, suddenly minds are focused -- for now.
279
But Colorado's New Belgium Brewery and the folks at Ben & Jerry's are teaming up on a beer inspired by ice cream -- salted caramel brownie ice cream, to be precise.
280
So what's changed between the shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, in August, and that of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina, last weekend?
281
According to the Giraffe Conservation Foundation, there are about 80,000 giraffes in Africa, a decline of 60,000 in the past 15 years.
282
As a matter of standard procedure, flights using an instrument flight rule flight plan have specific clearances with specific transponder codes, so the authorization for transit through the SFRA airspace is already built into the system.
283
The judge dismissed the other hit-and-run count because California law says no more than one charge of hit-and-run should be brought against a defendant when the same weapon, in this case the vehicle Knight was driving, is used against several people.
284
The female-skewing cable network has greenlit "The Unauthorized Full House Story" (working title), The Hollywood Reporter has learned.
285
Film producers hired a Lockheed C-130 Hercules to fly five cars 12,000 feet high, open a cargo door at the rear of the plane and parachute them out in a spectacular free-fall stunt.
286
Obama had said he had hoped a U.S. Embassy would reopen in Havana before the summit, but Cuban officials have said they cannot imagine a full restoration of diplomatic ties until Cuba is removed from the U.S. State Department list of countries that support terrorism.
287
(CNN)Richard Dysart, the award-winning stage actor who gained  fame playing law firm leader Leland McKenzie on "L.A. Law," has died.
288
A Los Angeles judge has ordered V. Stiviano to pay back more than $2.6 million in gifts after Sterling's wife sued her.
Who is V. Stiviano?
289
Paramedics from the Los Angeles Fire Department were called to her home around 2:30 p.m. PT (5:30 p.m. ET) Tuesday on the report of a medical emergency, spokesman Robert Hinojosa said.
290
"Most of the people -- a lot of the people -- are walking through the city.
"We are scared and waiting for the tremors to end.
Everyone is very scared.
291
The only thing we had was we could tell there was one victim," said Officer Todd Green of Bonney Lake Police Department, according to CNN affiliate KOMO.
292
Six attackers were killed by Cameroonian forces, said Maj. Nlate Eballe, an operations officer with a special military unit set up to fight Boko Haram.
293
Salk's vaccine, developed in the 1950s, involved injecting a virus that was "killed," while Sabin's vaccine -- which he worked on in the 1960s and which was administered orally -- contained a weakened version of polio.
294
The guard came to Ferguson to support law enforcement officers, whom many community leaders and civil rights activists accused of using excessive force and inflaming an already tense situation in protests that flared sporadically from August through the end of the year.
295
So, according to Luke, women whom Jesus had healed in turn provided for him out of their "resources," with Mary Magdalene and Joanna capturing our attention -- one by virtue of her husband, and the other, by her stature in the story of Jesus.
296
"Since the 2010 explosion of our natural gas transmission pipeline in San Bruno, we have worked hard to do the right thing for the victims, their families and the community of San Bruno," Tony Earley said.
The blast destroyed 37 homes.
297
(CNN)At least 54 people have died and 15 others are missing after a Russian fishing vessel sank off the Kamchatka Peninsula, according to Russia's state-run Tass news agency.
298
Users going to Baidu, one of China's most prolific Web services and most successful Internet companies, can become unknowing proxy warriors against the Great Cannon's targets, the study says.
299
As Iraqi forces, aided by Shiite militiamen, took control Wednesday of the northern city of Tikrit, they found vehicles laden with explosives and buildings that might be booby-trapped.
300
The Florida Medical Association didn't provide me with details about whether it has a lobbying effort against the gun law, and the Arizona Medical Association told me in a statement that "ArMA's policy is to take no position on abortion."
301
A year later, he penned a detailed account in The New Yorker on how he spent his war years up to the death of German dictator Adolf Hitler.
302
That could include one of Cruz's agenda items: a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, usurping whatever ruling comes out of the Supreme Court in June, when the court is expected to rule on whether such marriage is constitutionally protected.
303
"Lauren captured the hearts of people worldwide with her tenacity and determination to play in her first collegiate basketball game with her Mount St. Joseph University team," the group said on Facebook.
304
Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen three weeks ago Thursday.
Since Saudi Arabia began aerial raids March 26, it has launched more than 1,200 airstrikes.
305
The pattern would repeat in 2012 when North Korea seized Kenneth Bae, an American whom Kim Jong Un sought to leverage into concessions.
306
Jordan drifted in the Atlantic, rationing food and water until his shoulder healed.
After his food and water ran out, it became an issue of survival.
307
The blaze began shortly before 7 a.m. at the General Electric Appliance Park in Louisville, according to Mike Weimer from the city's emergency management agency.
308
The Hasd Al-Shaabi media office said Tuesday that Iraqi troops already at the refinery were holding their ground, preparing to push ISIS out of the facility entirely.
309
And Sabeen Mahmud surrounded herself there with books, people, and discussions on technology, human rights and women's entrepreneurship.
310
(CNN)Authorities detained a 15-year-old girl from Cape Town, South Africa, at the city's airport after receiving information she was leaving the country to join ISIS, State Security Minister David Mahlobo said.
311
(CNN)About a dozen Native American actors have walked off the set of an Adam Sandler movie comedy, saying the satirical Western's script is insulting to Native Americans and women, according to a report.
312
Happy New Year."
Later, the website says, Zarif went to make a similar protest at the Iranian mission to the United Nations.
313
(CNN)A Connecticut teen who has been forced to have chemotherapy to treat Hodgkin lymphoma will remain in temporary custody of the state for the time being, according to her attorney, Josh Michtom.
314
It surprises her how often students stand up and want to read their wishes out loud, like the shy student who shared, "I wish my teacher knew I'm nervous all the time."
315
It's unclear how many people have downloaded the app, which is available on Apple's App Store.
And if it's in Apple Store, I'll say I can only afford an Android phone.
316
Boyd said he and Pennebaker analyzed 33 plays by Shakespeare, nine by Fletcher and 12 by Theobald to create a "psychological signature" of each author based on word choices, phrase patterns and other factors.
317
If Democrats really want to take on Wall Street and tackle economic inequality, they first have to bring about reform of the campaign finance system.
318
Selling Girl Scout cookies.
It's an annual tradition: Girl Scouts sell cookies -- and, in the millions, we buy them.
CNN's Richard Roth asks about a sweet tradition that's leaving some with a bitter taste.
Watch the video: .
319
An oddity of the Seven Up debate was that many who viewed it will have no chance of voting for two of the leaders involved, Sturgeon of the Scottish National Party and Wood of Plaid Cymru.
320
And, although ISIS is trying to "out al Qaeda" al Qaeda, resorting to attention winning stunts to boost its profile on television sets around the world, al Qaeda itself is no less of a threat to the United States and our allies today than it was in January 2014.
321
Piccard spends a few hours of the afternoon in the cockpit, training to prepare for the Solar Impulse's crossings over the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean, what the team calls "the moment of truth."
322
Only a handful of the nation's top diplomats have gone to the White House (Thomas Jefferson; James Madison; James Monroe; John Quincy Adams; Martin Van Buren; and Buchanan).
323
Robin's comments follow claims by two magazines, German daily Bild and French Paris Match, of a cell phone video showing the harrowing final seconds from on board Germanwings Flight 9525 as it crashed into the French Alps.
324
Baghdad, Iraq (CNN)Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, a former top deputy to Saddam Hussein and more recently a key figure in Sunni extremist groups battling the Iraqi government, has been killed in a security operation in that country, Iraqi state-run television reported Friday.
325
Al-Shabaab also said it was responsible for the Makka Al Mukarama attack, claiming it targeted the hotel because its guests were spies and government officials.
326
Like the wider Syrian conflict, Yarmouk has a human face; the faces of young Mohammad and young Jihad.
These things are all possible.
327
Varvara was thought to be an endangered western whale, but her ability to "navigate across open water over tremendously long distances is impressive," he said in the release, which could mean that some western gray whales are actually eastern grays.
328
"... I know right now he's really hurt and I know how hard he worked to get where he is.
I mean, I was pretty hurt on my part but I know he's hurting even more."
329
"As a mom, I really wanted to get a good picture of it, too."
I didn't want girls to think they had to look like that," said Parker, whose daughters are now 6 and 9.
330
As crazy as this sounds, to put an entire head on a new body, a human body, Italian physician Dr. Sergio Canavero says we are approaching  HEAVEN (an acronym for head anastomosis venture; anastomosis is surgically connecting two parts).
331
"This was a decision that our family had discussed for quite some time," said Feld, chairman and CEO of Feld Entertainment, the company that owns Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey.
332
"I do not want to see it, nobody wants to see it ...
"We have achieved many things in moving forward and showed to the world that we do not want to live under a dictatorship."
333
Watch the video: .
Five northern white rhinoceroses are left in the entire world.
Former NFL player Aaron Hernandez was found guilty of murder earlier this week.
334
Another man's name has also hung over the Patz case for years -- Jose Antonio Ramos, a convicted child molester acquainted with Etan's babysitter.
335
The last time a new glassfrog was found in Costa Rica was back in 1973, according to the Costa Rican Amphibian Research Center.
336
Michael Cerveris, "Fun Home" Robert Fairchild, "An American in Paris" Brian d'Arcy James, "Something Rotten!"
Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre .
337
Mo, her lawyer, said the authorities had extracted the confession by threatening her son's safety and released the police video to CCTV without her knowledge.
338
But An Myong Hun, North Korea's deputy ambassador to the United Nations, said there was no reason to hold the Mu Du Bong and accused Mexico of violating the crew members' human rights by keeping them from their families.
339
When Hughes called Shanahan on Wednesday morning, Shanahan said he did not try to talk Hughes out of the plan, but "he was talking real quick, and I didn't know exactly what he meant by a lot of things."
340
But that's really all we know."
"You know who you are, you know what you've been involved in, and now is the time to stand up and be counted," he said.
341
Baltimore police said rioting at a shopping mall and elsewhere Monday afternoon started amid rumors, spread on social media, of a "purge" led by large groups of marauding high school students.
342
The Gray family's lawyers, again, put the family's wish out to the public that there be no protests that day, let alone violence.
343
Before the trial, at least one juror -- Rosalie Oliver -- hadn't heard of the 25-year-old defendant who has now gone from a $40 million pro-football contract to a term of life without parole in a maximum-security prison.
344
Rapiejko's actions in Marana, Arizona, in which he drove his patrol car into a man who had fired a rifle in the air minutes earlier and before that had pointed the gun at another officer, have stirred debate about what type of force police should have used.
345
And, in a case addressing the status of recently acquired island territories such as Puerto Rico, the justices had cited the alleged racial inferiority of tropical peoples as reason to treat these lands as second-class U.S. territories.
346
Abe himself had been born in Kentucky and had moved as a boy to Indiana, and later, as a young man, to Illinois.
Retracing Lincoln's assassination 150 years later .
347
The question of why foreign blacks are targeted and not foreign whites is also repeated ad nauseam, as if the majority of black citizens and African migrants share any common spaces and experiences with white South Africans or white foreigners.
348
In a separate outbreak in Texas, the CDC did find that listeria samples taken from patients who came down with listeriosis between 2010 and 2014 in a hospital that served 3-ounce Blue Bell cups matched the listeria in recovered samples.
349
Boston (CNN)Sending Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to prison for the rest of his life would bring years of punishment and rob him of martyrdom, jurors were told Monday.
350
That's what Kankakee County, Illinois, Sheriff Tim Bukowski said Saturday about Kamron Taylor, the 23-year-old convicted murderer turned jail escapee until his arrest overnight in Chicago.
351
(HLNtv)Actress Alyssa Milano had some angry tweets for Heathrow Airport authorities Thursday morning after workers there allegedly confiscated breast milk she'd pumped for her daughter while she was on a plane.
352
(CNN)This is week three of an ongoing series: A Catholic Reads the Bible.
In the preceding chapter, Abraham asks God to agree that if he can find 10 good people in the town, God won't smite it.
353
(CNN)The first trailer for a documentary on the life and music of late British singer Amy Winehouse was released Thursday.
I would probably go mad.
354
"The announcement by the Foreign Minister that Australia is entering into a security arrangement with the regime in Tehran really should send shudders down the spine of every Australian," he said, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
355
Two people were shot in the neck and another was shot in the leg, spokesman Jeff Small said.
There is a suspect in custody in the latter case: a 20-year-old male from St. Louis County.
356
(CNN)A 17-year-old teen who has been living at Connecticut Children's Medical Center since December while being forced to have chemotherapy to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma has completed treatment and left the hospital Monday, according to her attorney, Josh Michtom.
357
Cross-border raids into Kenya by the group, however, date back to 2011.
Soon after this, cross-border raids in Kenya began, predominantly targeting Christians there.
358
Having focused on his dead older brother, portraying Tamerlan Tsarnav as harsh, overbearing and bent on jihad, they now shift to the younger brother who tagged after him, as one witness said, "like a puppy."
359
After a year of testing, it set sail Saturday to retrace Lafayette's journey, 235 years after the original, and France gave it a sendoff with the trappings of an act of state.
360
The" Avengers" character (played by Jeremy Renner) was a guest on "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon," where he got behind the piano to showcase some of his other skills.
©2015 Billboard.
361
Atlanta (CNN)A judge, declaring he wasn't "comfortable" with seven-year prison terms given earlier to three educators in the Atlanta Public Schools cheating scandal, on Thursday reduced their sentences to three years in prison.
362
Now, it is taking the lead in Nepal.
Some might say India's friendship is a signal for the other big country that shares a border with Nepal: China.
363
While there are a few examples of fan-less games being played in the United States, none have been for such reasons, while in Europe, there have been a handful of incidents in which soccer teams have been punished for fan behavior with fan-less games.
364
Much of this month's violence happened in the port city of Durban, where at least two foreigners and three South Africans were killed after mobs with machetes attacked immigrant shops.
365
(CNN)After a Russian fighter jet intercepted a U.S. reconnaissance plane in an "unsafe and unprofessional manner" earlier this week, the United States is complaining to Moscow about the incident.
366
"As it goes on, they are saying it's getting harder and harder to treat," he says.
Eventually you're going to have 5 million cells, it's just going to keep growing and growing."
367
I'd made a version of the Batsuit from Christopher Nolan's 'Dark Knight Trilogy' and I really liked that suit," Gordon says.
368
(CNN)Working as a warden in Rwanda's Volcanoes National Park, home to the endangered mountain gorilla, Edwin Sabuhoro was determined to do whatever was necessary to protect the animals he was committed to defend -- including putting himself in harm's way.
369
(CNN)A hooded angel with black wings appeared on Tuesday near the spot where Walter Scott was shot and killed by a police officer in North Charleston, South Carolina, on Saturday.
370
Dr. Kristen Lindsey allegedly shot an arrow into the back of an orange tabby's head and posted a proud photo this week on Facebook of herself smiling, as she dangled its limp body by the arrow's shaft.
371
(CNN)The seventh installment of the "Fast and Furious" franchise," "Furious 7" is sure to draw fans curious about how the film handles the real-life death of co-star Paul Walker.
372
A bystander's cell phone video, which began after an alleged struggle on the ground between Slager and Scott, shows the five-year police veteran shooting at Scott eight times as Scott runs away.
373
The March snowpack measurement came in at 0.9 inches of water content in the snow, just 5% of the March 3 historical average for the measurement site.
374
Though most of the National Park Service's 407 sites are free year-round, the 128 parks that charge a fee -- like Yellowstone and Yosemite -- will be free those two days.
375
Chancey Allen Luna was found guilty of first-degree murder Friday for his role in the August 2013 drive-by shooting of Christopher Lane, a 23-year-old college student in Duncan, about 80 miles south of Oklahoma City.
376
While it is difficult to say how many foreign volunteers are fighting ISIS, a spokesman for a Kurdish militia fighting against them in Syria -- known as the YPG -- told the New York Times their forces include more than 100 American citizens.
377
The New Orleans City Council passed its ban against smoking in most places across the city -- including bars, casinos and restaurants -- in January, and the vote was unanimous, the New Orleans Times-Picayune reports.
378
By Sunday, ISIS said its fighters were inside the refinery and controlled several buildings, but Iraqi government security officials denied that claim and insisted Iraqi forces remain in full control.
379
The news came one day after The Hollywood Reporter reported exclusively that the husband of EL James, author of the "Fifty Shades" trilogy, will write the script for the second film.
380
Armenian Prime Minister Hovik Abrahamyan said Friday in statement that Turkey's Ottoman rulers had planned and carried out a "monstrous crime" in the years of World War I and called on more countries to recognize and condemn the genocide.
381
Thump.
Thump.
But it seems all anyone can talk about these days ... THUMP . ... is the taco cannon.
That's right, we said taco cannon.
382
Freberg died of natural causes at a Santa Monica hospital, his son and daughter, Donavan and Donna Freberg, confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter.
383
Iranians believe air strikes against ISIS are not effective, and feel that the U.S. and its allies are not trying seriously enough to defeat the group.
384
Rolling Stone: Listen to a previously unheard Kurt Cobain song .
Do you remember the first time you heard a Nirvana record -- and knowing that was your father?
385
Environmentalist group Sea Shepherd had been tailing the Thunder -- subject of an Interpol "purple notice" for suspected fraud and fisheries-related crimes -- since its ship the Bob Barker encountered it in the Southern Ocean several months ago.
386
By Thursday, both actors apologized.
I regret it and sincerely apologize."
Many on social media accepted his apology, but thoughts on Renner were mixed.
387
But Clarke argued that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev only took part in the plot under the influence of his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died after the bombings, but before his brother was captured in a boat parked in a Watertown backyard, .
388
This is where it gets interesting: It still might be an appropriate and constitutional part of a plea deal.  Shocked?
 It's OK to admit that, too.
389
The massive tech company is known for its impish April Fools' Day pranks, and Google Maps has been at the center of a few, including a Pokemon Challenge and a treasure map.
390
But for those who have survived, life will never be the same.
The latest World Health Organization Report confirmed a total of 30 new confirmed cases of Ebola were reported in the week of April 5.
391
Danielle Busby delivered all five girls at the Woman's Hospital of Texas via C-section at 28 weeks and two days, according to CNN affiliate KPRC.
392
(CNN)The University of Florida and Emory University are investigating allegations that Zeta Beta Tau fraternity members disrespected wounded war veterans last weekend at Panama City Beach, Florida, by spitting, urinating and pouring beer on them.
393
(CNN)Just weeks after Marvel's "Daredevil" premiered its first season on Netflix, the company confirmed Tuesday that a second season will be coming in 2016.
394
"If they can't legitimize that the academics are real and take no responsibility for that, then why certify students semester after semester to play?
395
The person charged Monday is accused of conspiring to commit acts done in preparation for, or planning, terrorist acts.
It's a handle ISIS is known to loathe.
396
Hong Kong (CNN)Six people were hurt after an explosion at a controversial chemical plant in China's southeastern Fujian province sparked a huge fire, provincial authorities told state media.
397
(CNN)NASA says its Messenger space probe crashed into Mercury on Thursday after running out of fuel, ending a nearly 11-year journey that provided valuable data and thousands of photos.
398
However, there is another camera that -- had it been deployed -- might have prevented the entire tragedy: a police body camera.
 Would he have fired?
399
(CNN)When ISIS overran their villages near Mosul in August 2014, a small group of Assyrians, a Middle Eastern minority with a history reaching back more than 4,000 years, picked up weapons and formed their own militia: Dwekh Nawsha -- "The Sacrificers."
400
Cuba has historically been the wrench in the diplomatic machinery, with some Latin American leaders threatening not to attend the Summit of the Americas if the United States and Canada didn't agree to invite President Raul Castro.
401
Tokyo (CNN)A second robotic probe sent into the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant has captured images of a strange green glow.
402
"What if there was no video?
 Furthermore, 10% of police involved in fatal shootings are black, and 78% of the people killed by black officers are black.
403
(CNN)A 24-year-old man is in custody after he called for an ambulance, only to have French authorities come and discover weapons, ammunition and evidence of his plans to target churches -- an attack that someone in Syria requested, a top prosecutor said Wednesday.
404
Marco Rubio drew a direct generational contrast with Hillary Clinton when he officially joined the GOP 2106 race, and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker also often talks of his hope Republicans will look for a next-generation leader as their next presidential nominee.
405
An officer says we've got one and confirms the address of 1700 Presbury, where Gray gave up without the use of force, according to Rodriguez.
406
(CNN)Tornadoes, fierce winds and severe thunderstorms with large hail are predicted for the Midwest and for the Plains, from the Ozarks eastward to the lower Ohio Valley, on Thursday and Friday, the National Weather Service said.
407
The President is headed to Panama for a regional summit, and Julie Pace of The Associated Press reports one of the big questions is whether he'll make history and have a face-to-face meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro.
408
Many of the questions around medical marijuana can be tied back to the fact that it's just not discussed much.
Readers also wanted to know why people are so against the legalization of marijuana.
409
It is an overwhelming introduction to this city that, less than 48 hours ago, was hit by the worst earthquake this country has experienced in 80 years.
I haven't slept for days," he says.
410
Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN)On Day Six of Nepal's tragedy, life triumphed as rescuers pulled an 15-year-old from the rubble of a multistory residential building in one of Kathmandu's hard-hit neighborhoods.
411
This scene has been repeated in recent days as countries work to get their citizens out of Sanaa during a small window when Saudi planes are not bombing the city in an attempt to drive out the Houthis, a Shiite group that has taken over the capital.
412
In a statement Monday, an attorney for the Brown family said that Bobbi Kristina Brown's condition has improved but that the kind of life she will lead remains to be seen.
413
Meanwhile, the new HIV and hepatitis C infections among injecting drug users in primarily rural states, such as in Indiana or Kentucky, show that the landscape of injection drug use in America is rapidly changing.
414
(CNN)For years, when I'd tell new friends I was half-Armenian, a puzzled look would cross their faces, before they'd ask something like, "Do you have a country?"
415
The jury returned not guilty verdicts on the attempted kidnapping charges against Mendel Epstein, and on more severe kidnapping charges against the three rabbis.
416
An Asiana Airlines plane overran a runway while landing at Japan's Hiroshima Airport on Tuesday evening, prompting the airport to temporarily close, the Japanese transportation ministry said.
417
Unfortunately, in an effort to placate critics who say Obama is not doing more for pro-democracy activists, the White House has miscalculated with Venezuela, handing the repressive regime of Chavez's successor, Nicolas Maduro, a stick with which to beat the U.S.
418
"Music is the most important tool we have in reaching these kids," said Bernstein, 30, a professional musician.
Chad Bernstein:
Bernstein:
419
The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region.
The eruption is a first for many in the region.
 There was a minor eruption in 1972.
420
Specifically, Lo Porto was a project manager with Welthungerlife's clean water and sanitation program, working with 8 to 10 fellow international staffers and 100 to 200 locals starting in October 2011, according to Simone Pott, a spokeswoman for the aid group.
421
The crash happened near the city of Tan-Tan just before 7 a.m., the Maghreb Arabe Presse state news agency reported.
It said a number of people were also injured.
422
Toyota, Volkswagen and Volvo all launched gasoline-electric hybrids for the Chinese market at the show, while Chinese manufacturer BYD has been an early pioneer of electric and hybrid cars.
423
"But when I knew what I had to do and I knew when I got caught, you know, I knew in my mind that I could get life, I could get the death penalty.
424
Debra Lobo, a 55-year-old California native, was shot in the right cheek and left arm and is unconscious but expected to survive, according to Mohamad Shah, a Karachi police spokesman.
425
But even though it is incredibly convincing, virtual reality completely bypasses the sense of touch: applying UltraHaptics' technology to it would allow users to not just see the virtual world projected in front of their eyes, but to touch it as well.
426
CNN's Marketplace Africa spoke to Thakkar about African innovation, entrepreneurship and collaboration.
Mobile money was created in Kenya.
427
Darduna says he was duped into believing the door was a normal door when it was really a canvas for Banksy, one of the world's most famous graffiti artists, who had painted a Greek goddess with her head in her hand.
428
(CNN)The mass killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, which began 100 years ago Friday, is said by some scholars and others to have been the first genocide of the 20th century, even though the word "genocide" did not exist at the time.
429
(CNN)A nuclear submarine being repaired at a Russian shipyard has caught on fire, according to a law enforcement source speaking to Russia's state-run news agency ITAR-Tass.
430
In November, the Baltimore City Paper ran a story about Kent, then 21, and his participation in Baltimore protests over a grand jury's decision not to indict a police officer in the August shooting of teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.
431
It all went down after Drake performed  "Madonna," a song named for the megastar off his new mixtape "If You're Reading This It's Too Late," according to Billboard.
432
Aldczar Aurelio, a meteorologist with the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), said the storm was centered 200 miles southwest of Aurora province as of 5 p.m. (5 a.m. ET) and heading west at a 12.5 mph clip.
433
(CNN)Two deputies involved in the fatal attempt to arrest Eric Harris in Tulsa, Oklahoma, have been reassigned because of threats against them and their families, Sheriff Stanley Glanz said Monday in a news conference.
434
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has backed out of next month's visit to Moscow for World War II anniversary celebrations, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday.
435
(CNN)A sexual harassment complaint has been filed against New Zealand Prime Minister John Key after a waitress complained about him repeatedly pulling her ponytail at an Auckland cafe.
436
"When he got (to Aden), after a few weeks he noticed things were starting to get bad and then the (U.S.) Embassy closed," his cousin Mohammed Alazzani told CNN.
437
By studying gene expression, the process that turns information from a gene into a product that functions within a cell, we searched for indicators that might signal exposure to oil and, based on the types of changes we might see, clues as to how the crabs respond.
438
He also has gone on record with his love for "hood doughnuts," or confections from "a place in the hood," saying "if my doughnuts don't come in a plain white box, I don't want them!"
439
"We found hundreds of dead bodies in shallow graves and on the streets of Damasak during our visit," Damasak local government spokesman Babagana Mustapha told CNN on Monday.
440
According to María Machicado Terán, the representative of U.N. women in Guatemala, "80% of men believe that women need permission to leave the house, and 70% of women surveyed agreed."
441
(CNN)A helicopter crash Saturday in Malaysia killed six people, including the nation's former ambassador to the United States and a high-ranking member of the prime minister's staff, the Malaysian state news agency Bernama reported.
442
"The first allegation is that, between 15 and 26 March 2015, the defendant incited another person to commit an act of terrorism, namely to carry out an attack at an ANZAC parade in Australia with the aim of killing and/or causing serious injury to people," Walsh said.
443
The audio from the plane's cockpit voice recorder has not been released, but the German newspaper Bild published Sunday what it claims is a summary of the transcript from the recording.
444
We haven't been able to corroborate this, but the people we're talking to here say there's damage to the villages outside Kathmandu -- thousands of houses damaged to the north, closer to the epicenter.
445
The relative calm that took over Baltimore can be credited in part to peaceful protesters who formed human barricades between hot-tempered demonstrators and police, day and night.
446
Following a recent state-wide ban on the sale and consumption of beef, authorities in the city have asked residents to take a 'mugshot' of their cattle and submit it to the police.
447
Protests are a common occurrence in India, a country with a population of 1.2 billion; Lucknow, the capital of the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, also used drone cameras to monitor crowds at a recent religious festival.
448
Some citizens have accused African immigrants of taking their already scarce jobs, undermining businesses owned by locals and contributing to a high crime rate.
449
The numbers are overwhelming facilities that care for the stranded sea lions, most of whom are pups, local officials said.
450
"They're going in the icefall and, as we found out on April 18, it's the most dangerous place," said Conrad Anker, a veteran climber who has been to Everest three times.
451
All sorts of historical cross-currents play off each other in this timeless song, brilliantly gilded with the unforgettable chorus, which starts as "Bye, Bye, Miss American Pie."
452
(CNN)Thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters in South Africa after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in Durban, leaving at least five people dead, an aid group said Thursday.
453
According to a statement issued by the NCPO, the new order grants military personnel powers to issue summons and arrest those who commit crimes against the royal family or against national stability, who commit crimes involving war weaponry, or who violate the orders of the NCPO.
454
(CNN)Cynthia Lennon, who married John Lennon when he was a struggling musician and was there when he rose to fame with the Beatles, died Wednesday, according to a post on the website of her son, Julian.
455
"China has among the highest rates of myopia and it's the only country in the world that does eye exercises, so it's probably not working all that well," said Congdon.
456
"We ran over and ran around the rubble and couldn't hear anything," he said.
He heard "big booming sounds," he said, and saw people fleeing into the streets.
457
The few reports that are emerging from areas controlled by ISIS suggest that, unsurprisingly, people do not like living under a brutal, theocratic dictatorship.
458
Meanwhile, Peshmerga forces -- also with the assistance of coalition strikes -- cleared 84 square kilometers (32 square miles) of ISIS-occupied territory in Iraq on Saturday, the Kurdistan Region Security Council said.
459
She endured 36 long hours trapped in a room before an Indian rescue team freed her.
It took 18 hours before the necessary help arrived, he said.
460
Before you berate Jackie for prioritizing her love of travel over marriage, consider where she's coming from.
Would it be so terrible if we all remained single?
461
And so, I'm announcing that if elected president, I will take a 23% pay cut, equivalent to the current gender wage gap, to stand in solidarity with working women in America.
462
A female student was found under a pile of bodies, another female student was hiding in a wardrobe and a male student was hiding in the bathroom, the sources confirmed to CNN.
463
London detectives investigating the Hatton Garden heist will be looking very closely at the possibility of inside involvement.
464
I had heard about hiring strippers to dance at funerals but had never seen it myself.
He said the villagers said this kind of performance had been practiced for a while.
465
7-Eleven is hosting the first Bring-Your-Own-Cup Slurpee Day at United States stores from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday to kick off peak Slurpee season.
466
Thorpe said his project enables "the creation of a visual metaphor from which a viewer develops their own emotional, physical and political response to war and conflict, when faced with the realization that the images do not contain toy soldiers but real soldiers."
467
Paul kicked off his announcement speech in Louisville by declaring "I have a message that is loud and clear:  We have come to take our country back."
468
It also has the sweetest of all Python songs: Idle's "The Galaxy Song," which is even more uplifting than "Brian's" "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life."
Cons: The fish.
469
Petty Holdings also operates the Richard Petty Driving Experience -- a chance to drive or ride in NASCAR race cars named for the winningest driver in the sport's history.
470
Details of the plot for 2016's "Star Wars: Rogue One" were revealed during a panel at Star Wars Celebration fan festival Sunday in Anaheim, California.
471
"As of 6 April 2015 there have been a total of 643 deaths and 2,226 injuries," the WHO, the health arm of the United Nations, said in a statement.
472
Pregracke also gives Rowe a tour of the 150-foot, solar-powered barge that the Living Lands & Waters staff calls home during lengthy cleanups.
473
About 90% of the inmates in the maximum-security prison are locked in their cells for 19 hours a day, said Walker, the legal advocate.
474
During trial, prosecutors suggest a text written by Hernandez the day before the murder saying he was "buggin" for showing Lloyd "the spot" may have played a role in plotting to kill Lloyd.
475
Gene Schaerr, a Washington appellate lawyer who help to defend Utah's ban on same-sex marriage, calls Sutton's opinion a road map for whoever might write an opinion supporting state bans.
476
But what they didn't know is that without this swamp, there can be no "good life" in Florida.
This is a problem, not just for the gators and snakes.
477
It was common back then for male colleagues to publicly address them  as "babes" or "little sisters,"  even in professional—and ostensibly progressive—settings.
478
Altamura Man's intact skull and jumbled pile of bones made for a great specimen, but they were wedged into a panoply of stalactites and stony globules deposited by water dripping over them for tens of thousands of years.
479
In 2013, the teen's family told media that an Atlanta hospital rejected him for heart transplant surgery due to what the hospital described in a letter as Stokes' "history of non-compliance."
480
London (CNN)Police said Thursday that there was no sign of forced entry to a building in a spectacular holiday weekend heist of safe deposit boxes in the heart of London's jewelry district.
481
Des Moines, Iowa (CNN)Martin O'Malley told reporters in Iowa on Friday that inevitability -- a term bandied about regarding Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton -- is not unbreakable.
482
Pusok abandoned his vehicle and fled on foot into steep, rugged terrain, with deputies pursing with off-highway vehicles and helicopters, the sheriff's office said.
483
Jakarta (CNN)An Indonesian court has rejected a bid by two Australian drug smugglers -- members of the "Bali Nine" -- to challenge their planned executions.
484
Dujardin and Valegro won their second consecutive Reem Acra FEI World Cup Dressage title in Las Vegas at the weekend -- a trophy to sit alongside Olympic gold and the world and European titles.
The World Cup Finals are among the most prestigious equestrian titles, but the weekend's events in Las Vegas were notable for the success of younger riders.
485
CNN affiliate KOMO spoke to Marty Collins, a passenger on the plane.
After returning to Seattle, the aircraft took off again, arriving in Los Angeles on Monday evening.
486
Activists and residents in Yarmouk tell CNN that as many as 5,000 people have tried to flee their homes since ISIS stormed the camp, but have no place to go.
487
(CNN)Russian President Vladimir Putin shrugged off repeated questions about the impact of Western sanctions on his nation during a nationally broadcast annual Q&A session.
488
"Never under any circumstance have I ever had any sexual contact of any kind, which includes massages or any physical contact whatsoever, with Jane Doe #3," he said.
489
Seoul (CNN)North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is continuing to rule with an iron fist, having ordered the execution of about 15 senior officials so far this year, according to an assessment by South Korean intelligence agents, a lawmaker who attended a closed briefing said.
490
Ambergris Caye held the top ranking on the TripAdvisor global islands list for two years in a row before dropping out of the top 10 completely this year.
2. Island of Hawaii, Hawaii .
491
She can still hear him talking to her: "'Ma, did you cook?
Odin Lloyd's sister Olivia Thibou wept as she explained what it has felt like to lose her brother.
492
But now, say officials, Mohamud is in command of an Al-Shabaab militia based near Kenya's long, porous border with Somalia -- about 118 miles (190km) from Garissa -- who are believed to be responsible for numerous cross-border attacks into Kenya.
493
The criminal complaint says he told a confidential informant that he wanted to travel to Syria to wage jihad, "but that his mother had feared that he would do so and took his passport so that he could not travel."
494
While the past two winners of the Iowa caucuses -- Santorum and Huckabee -- are likely running for president again, Steve Scheffler, president of the group, argued that the field is wide open in terms of who's going to win favor among evangelicals.
495
Perhaps with the potential threats in mind, Kim feels the need to reassert his authority and keep his eye on the centers of power.
496
My greatest surprise, though, came when I read about Seth.
The explanation for the flood is that man had become more and more wicked, but  I didn't expect, though, that God would "regret" creating man.
497
Meanwhile, as many Marvel fans know, Thursday was the eve of the new Netflix series "Daredevil," and after a photoshopped first look at Charlie Cox's iconic red Daredevil suit went out, Marvel put out a video of the real one.
498
Most migrants recorded this year come from countries in West Africa as well as Somalia and Syria, the IMO said.
They use Libya as a country of transit.
499
(The Hollywood Reporter)The author of a 2006 novel has accused the "Avengers" director and "Cabin" director Drew Goddard of stealing his idea.
500
For more than a year NATO has been condemning Russia's actions in Ukraine as well as its frequent, large scale, snap military drills and those long-range Bear bombers repeatedly flying very close to NATO airspace.
501
(CNN)Hockey player Jarret Stoll of the L.A. Kings was arrested Friday at the swimming pool of a Las Vegas resort on a drug-possession charge, CNN affiliate KSNV reported, citing a police spokesman.
502
The very thought left a bad taste in my mouth."
Affleck has noted that he regrets asking PBS to not include information about his "distant relative."
503
Alexis Keslar was walking with her twin sons, Silas and Eli Keslar, along a canal Friday when she tried to repel a bee, police in Yuma said.
504
To Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was "running for his life" away from the officer to escape more of the Taser.
Scott then falls.
505
To counter criticism, Abe now refers to Japan's comfort women system in terms of human trafficking, a linguistic ploy to obscure state responsibility for operating this system and make it appear he gets 21st century concerns.
506
(CNN)A gunman walked into a building on the campus of Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, on Monday and shot the school's print shop operator, killing him, authorities said.
507
The move by prosecutor Javier de Luca to drop the case could mean a definitive end to the accusations that have roiled the nation, according to Argentina's state-run Telam news agency.
508
(CNN)A French-language global television network regained control of one of its 11 channels Thursday after a cyberattack a day earlier crippled its broadcasts and social media accounts.
509
ISIS claimed to have executed that many soldiers captured in June outside Camp Speicher, a fortified Iraqi base near Tikrit.
510
"She's a strong woman.
"I learned very early on that the criminal justice system isn't just the police, the judges and the state's attorney," she said.
511
None of the girls rescued from raided Boko Haram camps in Nigeria has been identified thus far as among the missing Chibok girls, a high-ranking Nigerian army official said.
512
(CNN)A top al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula leader -- who a few years ago was in a U.S. detention facility -- was among five killed in an airstrike in Yemen, the terror group said, showing the organization is vulnerable even as Yemen appears close to civil war.
513
(CNN)By some estimates, about a third of Americans use some form of alternative medicine, including homeopathic remedies because they find Western medicine inadequate.
514
"Showtime also loves the world of Twin Peaks and we continue to hold out hope that we can bring it back in all its glory with both of its extraordinary creators, David Lynch and Mark Frost, at its helm."
515
Wang Qiushi, a lawyer for Wei, said police recommended last week that prosecutors press charges of "assembling a crowd to disturb public order."
516
What does it feel like to find a lost city?
Since 1996, he and his team have discovered more than 80 ancient Mayan cities in the jungles of Mexico, few of which the modern world had known before.
517
Surveillance video obtained by CNN affiliate News 12 Brooklyn appears to show Det. Ian Cyrus stashing cash in a bag before leaving the Yemen Deli and Grocery store in Brooklyn last Friday.
518
Soldiers from the African Union, who are in Somalia in part to support the government's fight against Al-Shabaab, teamed up with Somali security forces to shoot and kill the five attackers, Yusuf said.
519
(CNN)An Arizona police chief on Wednesday supported an officer's decision to drive his car into an armed suspect, saying that although the move could have killed the suspect, deadly force was justified.
520
Family members of runners often didn't know where their loved ones were on the marathon route.
Once family members know that they are with loved ones, the trauma subsides.
521
And last month, the U.S. Embassy warned of possible attacks "throughout Kenya in the near-term" after the reported death of a key al-Shabaab leader, Adan Garaar, who was accused in the Westgate attack.
522
Tuesday's election will bring change, no matter how the ballots are cast: Two black men are running for one of the open seats, and the current lone black council member isn't up for re-election.
523
Yemen-based Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, in a news release and wanted poster distributed online, offers the reward for the death or capture of Houthi leader Abdelmalik Bedrudin Al-Houthi and former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
524
The country joined several of its South American neighbors in allowing the unions when President Michelle Bachelet enacted a new law on Monday.
525
"Increasing the sale age to 21 will reduce tobacco use among youth and young adults, age groups when nearly all smoking begins and that are heavily targeted by the tobacco industry," he said.
526
Elizabeth I led the country through the Golden Age, and Victoria and Elizabeth II -- the two longest reigning monarchs -- both made their mark with perhaps the most illustrious and progressive legacies of all.
527
"That said, human infections have occurred" with another strain of the virus, found in Africa and in Asia, so the CDC cannot rule out the possibility of human infection, Fry said.
528
The Egyptian news outlet Al Ahram reported that Badie had been sentenced to death twice before, but an appeals court overturned one verdict, and Egypt's Grand Mufti disapproved of the other.
529
Spotters reported a tornado about 6 miles northwest of Goddard, which is less than 15 miles west of Wichita.
One Instagram user there posted a photo of a fallen tree.
530
Yet in June, Marriott International launched a "#Love Travels" marketing campaign, aimed at attracting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender travelers with an assurance of "the company's commitment to make everyone feel comfortable about who they are."
531
It's a seemingly harmless get-together, one that could have happened any time in Tony's life, but it's fraught with tension, Chase observes.
532
A new jury was empanelled in October 2014 to decide Arias' fate, but they, too, were unable to reach a unanimous decision.
533
(CNN)I remember traveling one day in the local train in Mumbai with my mother, my younger sister and brother.
I wanted to cry but could only think to myself, "Stop it!
534
In March 2013, Holmes offered to plead guilty so he could avoid the death penalty, a deal the district attorney declined.
535
Simply put, the United States is spreading foreign military assistance too thin, while also failing to make necessary long-term commitments.
536
Sea Glass Vacations, which acts as a rental agent for several units at Sirenusa, said that the unit directly below the one where the family stayed was recently treated for pests, but that their unit was not treated.
537
Christopher Scarver, who was sentenced to two life terms in prison for killing Dahmer and another man at Columbia Correctional Institution in 1994, said the confessed cannibal would leave the fake limbs around the prison where others would find them.
538
In the wake of the disaster, which has left at least 4,500 people dead across Nepal, Sitoula endured 36 long hours trapped in a room on the ground floor, before she was freed by an Indian rescue team.
539
"For me when you're doing photography -- whether it's conventional journalism or other types -- you want to share something with people," he said.
540
Phi Kappa Psi would likely argue that the "small group" exception fits it perfectly: Even if the individual members were not identified by name, the defamatory story has been imputed directly to individual members, who have suffered by their association with the group.
541
(CNN)As the model for Norman Rockwell's "Rosie the Riveter," Mary Doyle Keefe became the symbol of American women working on the home front during World War II.
542
Google's popular real-time traffic app, Waze, uses GPS navigation and crowdsourcing to alert users to traffic jams, automobile accidents, stalled cars, and through its "traffic cop" feature, the presence of law enforcement.
543
Rome (CNN)The Italian navy has boarded and retaken control of a fishing boat that had been seized hours earlier by gunmen off the coast of Sicily, the Italian military said Friday.
544
We all deserve to know where the food we eat comes from and that it is wholesome, and we need our elected officials to take a stand against big agri-businesses to quit letting them profit off of meat and produce that jeopardize the health of the environment and the public.
545
It features the spirited siblings from the beloved classic "One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish" and is believed to have been written between 1958 and 1962.
546
One government vehicle sustained heavy damage to its front and side, and another government SUV ended up on its side.
547
(CNN)Slamming world powers' framework nuclear deal with Iran, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday demanded that any final deal include a "clear and unambiguous Iranian recognition of Israel's right to exist."
548
Mind-reading mutant Jean Grey (also an X-Men original) asks Bobby why he calls women "hot," when she knows he is gay.
no leaks.
549
(CNN)Indiana Gov. Mike Pence issued an executive order Monday to extend a public health emergency in his state in response to a rampant HIV outbreak that first began in mid-December.
550
Iran isn't 10 feet tall in this region, but by making the nuclear issue the be-all and end-all that is supposed to reduce Iran's power, the United States is only making Tehran taller.
551
"To this day -- we just went through a three-month trial, and this is now two years later -- we still don't know the exact time of Odin's murder," a male juror said.
552
The banging in the cargo hold did come from a person and he turned out to be a ramp agent from Menzies Aviation, a contractor for Alaska Airlines that handles loading the luggage, the airline said.
553
Back in 1995, the Baltimore Sun profiled Soon Jae and Eun Ja Lee, owners of Lee's Food Market in the West Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood -- the same part of the city that NPR called out as a locus of Asian-black tension.
"Oh, of course we're open, we're always open!" said Mrs. Lee, warmly and brightly.
We will make sure you are OK -- just stay open!'
We love it."
554
(CNN)English actress Michelle Keegan has been named the sexiest woman in the world by British men's magazine FHM.
555
Stiller, who plays the title role of male model Derek Zoolander, dropped the news by sharing a photo of "Little Penny" Cruz as a child and saying he was "excited" to welcome her to the cast.
556
There's so much wrong with boxing's business model, but all you really need to understand is this: Most sports fans probably can't name a single active boxer after Mayweather and Pacquiao.
557
A video shows Officer Michael Slager, who is white, firing eight shots at 50-year-old Walter Scott as Scott has his back to him and is running away.
558
The deaths of Ubaidullah and Suleman underline the fact that there are almost no top leaders of al Qaeda left except al-Zawahiri.
559
(CNN)Craig Hicks, who is charged in the deaths of three Muslim college students in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, earlier this year, can face the death penalty, a judge ruled Monday, according to CNN affiliates.
560
"As a woman, I want to struggle more (for my rights), I want to have more people around me, to struggle with me."
"And you have to struggle for your rights.
561
But earthquakes are a fact of life in Nepal, and "we were still thinking it was a just a simple earthquake," Sedai said.
562
Now, the tiny settlement of Tristan da Cunha is seeking the help of architects and designers the world over to secure its future well into the 21st century.
563
The uber private rapper/entrepreneur broke out of his usually reserved social media shell over the weekend to defend the performance of his new music streaming service, Tidal.
564
After the ship went under, the U-boat reportedly surfaced and the captain said to the survivors in lifeboats: "Goodnight, sorry for sinking you."
565
"Anyone who is breathing, shoot them," Titus said the gunman in charge said.
"We just lay there hopelessly, because we know automatically we're going to be killed," Titus said.
566
One form of alternate service is "nail and mail" service.
While the older forms of alternate service were public, most electronic service takes the form of email.
567
(CNN)The U.N. Security Council voted Tuesday in favor of an arms embargo on Houthis -- the minority group that has taken over large swaths of Yemen, including its capital, Sanaa -- and supporters of former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
568
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines heavy drinking as exceeding an average of one drink per day during the past month for women and two drinks per day for men.
569
The world's leading showjumping and dressage horses have reached Las Vegas for this week's World Cup Finals.
For the riders, few locations are comparable.
570
If Gates thought there was no need for the slavery segment because it didn't make for good television, there would have been no need to consult with Lynton; Gates could have given Affleck what he wanted because he made the assessment of how strong Affleck's story was.
571
Japanese law restricts drone flights around airports to prevent problems with aircraft, but there are no flight restrictions for most of Tokyo, including the Prime Minister's residence and local and federal government buildings.
572
Right now, the nation is losing 10,000 units of public housing every year, mainly because of disrepair, HUD created the Rental Assistance Demonstration  initiative to bring private investment into the fold for the public good.
573
And that information would trigger a machine to register an anomaly in the groin area, prompting the male TSA officer to pat down the passenger, police said, citing a TSA investigation.
574
Other pregnant women fleeing repression have come to Libya -- many fleeing fighting that refuses to stop.
Bodies wash up on Libyan beaches.
575
The worst architectural losses have included the majestic Shiva temple pagoda and its twin, the Narayan temple pagoda, which dominated Kathmandu's main Durbar Square.
576
Yet he is still sending thousands of copies across the border from South to North Korea in balloons, determined his people will see the movie in which the leader Kim Jong Un is assassinated on screen.
577
In Los Angeles, six people protesting against police brutality were arrested Monday night when they failed to disperse, reported CNN affiliate KABC.
578
CNN spoke to several immigrants living and working in South Africa about the crisis, which has caused South African President Jacob Zuma to postpone an overseas visit and left authorities scrambling to prevent further clashes.
579
At an emotional event in Anaheim, California, director J.J. Abrams and the "Star Wars: Episode VII -- The Force Awakens" cast showed off for the audience and then capped the presentation with the trailer for the new film.
580
As he drew closer to the bus, Barnett decided to stop filming because he didn't know what to expect.
I didn't know if anyone was hurt."
581
"Immediately following the incident in December 2014, TSA increased the random and unpredictable screening of aviation workers at various airport access points to mitigate potential security vulnerabilities," Johnson said in a statement.
582
(CNN)At least four people are missing after a severe storm capsized sailboats Saturday afternoon during a regatta in Mobile Bay, Alabama, Coast Guard spokesman Carlos Vega said.
583
People loved it.
Bobby Schuller Jr. left "Hour of Power" and the pulpit at Crystal Cathedral after a short time.
People we've lost in 2015 .
584
Rescuers, most of them volunteers from the town of Le Borgne and surrounding communities, were dispatched to the scene  and rescued at least 12 people, Celestin said.
585
Mexican state oil company Pemex said 45 workers were injured in the blaze, which began early Wednesday morning.
CNN's Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
586
"In Israel.
Braham said she will move her family from Paris to Israel when she is ready, but she does not want to feel like she is running away.
587
Bratton, who said the detective was on duty at the time, issued an apology to the driver and passengers.
Because this isn't important enough for me.
You're not important enough.
588
"After 64 years on the seafloor, Independence sits on the bottom as if ready to launch its planes," mission leader James Delgado, the maritime heritage director for NOAA's Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, said in a statement.
589
(CNN)Suzanne Crough, the child actress who portrayed youngest daughter Tracy on the '70s musical sitcom "The Partridge Family," has died.
590
At first, she thought it was just one.
"It's been surreal I feel like we're breaking the Internet but in a really great way," she told CNN affiliate WPIX.
591
(CNN)A new Kansas law banning a common second-term abortion procedure is the first of its kind in the United States.
CNN's Sam Stringer contributed to this report.
592
"The choice made by families not to immunize their children is not supported by public policy or medical research nor should such action be supported by taxpayers in the form of child care payments," said Abbott in a joint statement with Social Services Minister, Scott Morrison.
593
"There has been an outpouring of support from ordinary South Africans who are disgusted with the attacks not only because they are foreign, or African, but because they are fellow human beings," said Gift of the Givers charity, which is helping those seeking refuge.
594
"The continuing use of suicide attacks in densely populated areas, that are certain to kill and maim large numbers of Afghan civilians, may amount to a war crime," said Nicholas Haysom, head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
595
Lagos, Nigeria (CNN)A day after winning Nigeria's presidency, Muhammadu Buhari told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that he plans to aggressively fight corruption that has long plagued Nigeria and go after the root of the nation's unrest.
596
Back home, my parents decided against going to the nearby Sifal Chaur football field where families were sleeping on plastic mattresses under rudimentary tents.
597
Hong Kong's leadership has warned pro-democracy legislators against the veto, saying the city might never again receive a chance for political reform.
598
"As a CCTV presenter, Bi Fujian's speech in the online video has led to grave social consequences," the network said in a statement posted on its Weibo account.
599
As a deflated panel of Wildcats fielded a reporter's question about Wisconsin standout Frank Kaminsky, a hot mic picked up Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison saying of Kaminsky, "F**k that (N-word)."
600
Both North Charleston and Ferguson have police forces that are not representative of the population they serve, yet because of a video North Charleston's police force got in front of the story.
601
(CNN)Iran will sign a final nuclear agreement only if economic sanctions against the nation are removed on the first day of the deal's implementation, President Hassan Rouhani said Thursday.
602
While aerial surveys taken in 2010 suggest tens of thousands of sea turtles were exposed to oil in coastal waters, government agencies are still gathering data and have not concluded if the spill will have long-term effects on sea turtle populations.
603
Just last week, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was convicted on 30 charges related to the bombings at the race and the dramatic violence that dragged out for days afterward.
604
What we know: Segments of cell phone video shot from two different positions appear to begin after Gray has been arrested and show officers dragging Gray, who is handcuffed, to a van.
605
Washington (CNN)A shooting that prompted the lockdown of the U.S. Capitol for several hours Saturday was a suicide and does not have an apparent connection to terrorism, Capitol Police Chief Kim Dine said in a news conference.
606
(CNN)April 27 is celebrated as Freedom Day in South Africa, commemorating the country's first democratic elections in 1994 election which saw Nelson Mandela elected as president.
607
Until his death in 2011, despite deals with Italy and the European Union to control departures from his borders, Gadhafi intermittently used European fears of mass arrivals of migrants from Libya as a political weapon.
608
John Demjanjuk, whose conviction by a Munich court in 2011 established the precedent that has now made possible the trial of Oskar Gröning, remained defiantly silent during his 18-month trial, never so much as breathing a word of acknowledgment or remorse.
609
The question is this: Are they ready for Hillary as that woman?"
 She doesn't need to play it because she embodies it.
 You aren't going to win 100% of women."
610
Wood said his client -- who had donated cars and video equipment to the Sheriff's Office -- had undergone all the required training and had participated in more than 100 operations with the task force he was working with the day he shot Harris.
611
"Arrested Development" executive producer Brian Grazer said the show will return for a fifth season of 17 episodes.
612
A federal jury's decision to convict Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of 30 charges related to the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings was the most anticlimactic of anticlimaxes.
613
(CNN)A professor at Texas A&M Galveston said in an email to his strategic management students that they were a disgrace, that they lacked maturity -- and that he would fail the entire class.
614
The Transportation Security Administration alerted local law enforcement agencies that are responsible for external security around airports, but officials said the possible threat is not necessarily aviation-related.
615
On the other side, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian said that officials in his country and Saudi Arabia can help bring about a "political solution" in Yemen, according to Iran's state-run Press TV, citing AFP.
616
Hershkovitz is convinced that crosses were not made from olive trees because the people depended on the olive tree for food and wouldn't be slashing them down to make crosses.
617
He saw people lying outside with broken bones and head injuries.
Pakistan announced it is sending a medical team, a 30-bed hospital and search-and-rescue experts.
618
Although edgy hardliners may now try to play games and complain the preliminary agreement is not what they had hoped, for many people it shows excellent progress and that's what they want.
619
Only God can judge me," Dahou said, "People talked but I said I decided to be a man so I can take care of my small daughter."
No, I thank God.
620
(CNN)A  man charged with planning the deadly 2008 Mumbai terror attacks in India has been released on bail in Pakistan after years of detention, prompting sharp criticism from India.
621
UPMC counters that Kentucky Medicaid told them that if they want to care for Katie, they would have to sign up hundreds of their doctors to accept Kentucky Medicaid patients.
622
A Japan Railway maglev train hit 603 kilometers per hour (374 miles per hour) on an experimental track in Yamanashi Tuesday, setting a decisive new world record.
623
Lois will be fondly remembered by her many friends at CBC," Catto told The Hollywood Reporter.
Lilienstein left the Sharon, Lois & Bram performance trio in 2000.
624
It's a familiar story in families across Western India's cotton production belt, where, a cotton lobbyist group claims, one cotton farmer commits suicide every eight hours.
625
Nairobi (CNN)An elite police commando unit waited hours for transport from Nairobi, Kenya, to Garissa, where Al-Shabaab terrorists had taken over a university on April 2, according to one of the commandos who participated in the response operation.
626
"Operating accelerators for the benefit of the physics community is what CERN's here for," CERN Director-General Rolf Heuer said on the organization's website.
627
Washington (CNN)An Iranian military observation aircraft flew within 50 yards of an armed U.S. Navy helicopter over the Persian Gulf this month, sparking concern that top Iranian commanders might not be in full control of local forces, CNN has learned.
628
She also broke her own Big Texan record of two 72-ounce steaks and sides, set last year, when she bested previous record-holder Joey "Jaws" Chestnut.
629
Deputy Commissioner Kevin Davis, who is overseeing the task force as the head of the Investigations and Intelligence Bureau, said last week that the evidence suggested the transport van carrying Gray made three stops before delivering him to the police station.
630
On Wednesday, DC Entertainment, Warner Bros. and Mattel announced a partnership to launch DC Super Hero Girls, featuring familiar superheroes and supervillains as "relatable teens," according to a press release.
631
I love the buzz when I launch a piece on the Internet and on Google Analytics, you suddenly see society engaging... millions and millions of people engaging."
632
That's why in our public and more private discourse, people with mental illness and the rest of society must talk about mental illness in a way that doesn't drive some into the darkness.
633
After deliberating for 11½ hours, jurors found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on Wednesday of all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombing trial.
634
Federal education minister Smriti Irani was visiting a FabIndia outlet in the tourist resort state of Goa on Friday when she discovered a surveillance camera pointed at the changing room, police said.
635
"We are at a social inflection point on transgender issues," says Riki Wilchins, a former transgender activist and author of three books on queer theory, who believes all the attention could have a positive impact.
636
Video from one officer's body camera fades to black as Harrison's mother wails, "Oh, they killed my son!
Oh, they killed my son!"
637
Authorities also handled 115,000 drug-related crimes -- such as robbery -- and 606,000 cases of drug use during the nationwide campaign to "ban drugs in hundreds of cities," Liu Yuejin, Assistant Minister of Public Security, said Wednesday.
638
Finally, morning came.
Over the last few hours, people had shyly come up to ask if they could borrow our phone to tell their families they were safe.
639
The flows of migrants across the Mediterranean are unlikely to stop -- Italian authorities estimate that up to 200,000 migrants in Libya are waiting to cross, following 170,000 refugees and migrants who arrived in Italy last year.
640
Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, 23, of Columbus, allegedly traveled to Syria for training and wanted to return home to kill Americans -- particularly U.S. soldiers, execution style, the U.S. Department of Justice said Thursday.
641
In the original scene, one of the best-loved bits from the 1986 John Hughes film, Cryer dances around a record store, lip-syncing the song as he tries to win the affection of Molly Ringwald's Andie.
642
Panama City, Panama (CNN)Ending a decades-long standstill in U.S.-Cuba relations, President Barack Obama met for an hour Saturday with his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro, the first time the two nations' top leaders have sat down for substantive talks in more than 50 years.
643
But the situation appears set to improve in the coming months after a top Iranian sports official said that the ban will be lifted for some events.
644
Hollywood Reporter: 'Suicide Squad' is 'Dirty Dozen' with supervillains .
Warner Bros. and DC Entertainment are both units of Time Warner, as is CNN.
645
Ramalinga Raju, the former chairman of software services exporter Satyam Computers Services, was also fined $804,000, R.K. Gaur, a spokesman for India's Central Bureau of Investigation, told CNN.
646
"It is the first complete camel skeleton found in Central Europe and Central European territories under the control of the Ottoman Empire, apart from the complete skeleton of a dromedary recovered from the sediments of the Theodosius harbor on the European part of Istanbul."
647
The singer did not divulge the nature or severity of the cancer, saying "I'd like to keep the details of her condition and treatment plans private."
648
"We regret the inconvenience Ms. Sedway experienced ... and are very sorry for how the situation was handled," Alaska Airlines spokeswoman Bobbie Egan said.
649
Macular degeneration is a breakdown of the part of the retina that allows us to see fine details in the center of vision; while glaucoma damages the nerve that connects the retina to the brain, and is often caused by fluid build-up and pressure in the eyes.
650
With her video, new logo and road trip, she opened a long communications campaign not only to "rebrand" herself but to completely reframe who she is, what she stands for and how she intends to run.
651
Now 16 years old, he had lived his entire life in foster care, bouncing from one home to another.
She already had three children, ages 21, 17 and 14.
652
Jodie Sweetin, who played Stephanie Tanner in the original series, and Andrea Barber, who portrayed D.J.'s best friend Kimmy Gibbler, will both return for the new series, Netflix said.
653
But with the Petrobras scandal growing and the economy sinking, the protests have gotten bigger and broader, with many demonstrators saying they initially voted for Rousseff.
654
The performer, who was also an accomplished guitarist, was first diagnosed with cancer in 1990, the year he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest, and the year before he released the album that ignited his career.
655
I asked 28-year-old Jibril, from Gambia, why he had left his home.
"I was scared," 25-year-old Al-Haji from Gambia told me about the journey from Libya.
656
As we reform our criminal justice system at the national level, we will alter the cycles of poverty and recidivism that plague too many American communities and start to develop virtuous cycles of excellence.
657
Washington (CNN)Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the deal six world powers struck to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions, saying he sees better options than "this bad deal or war."
658
Companies that help arrange surrogate pregnancies estimate 25 couples are now in Kathmandu with newborn surrogate children, while 10 to 15 surrogate mothers are due to give birth in the coming weeks.
659
Kabul, Afghanistan (CNN)A suicide bomber detonated his explosives near a group of protesters in eastern Afghanistan on Thursday, killing 17 people and wounding dozens more, police said.
660
"The executions of two Indonesian citizens in Saudi Arabia in a single week should be a turning point on the subject of death penalty in Indonesia," said Andreas Harsono, the Indonesian researcher for Human Rights Watch.
661
They began with what authorities believe was a domestic kidnapping incident, according to D.C. Police Chief Cathy Lanier.
An officer and the suspect were wounded, according to the police chief.
662
Italy boasts the highest number of UNESCO World Heritage sites in the world -- 50, several of which risk crumbling to the ground due to neglect and lack of public resources.
663
The economic case for why the ocean is so critical to livelihoods around the world is clear, and we will not be able to plead ignorance if we collectively preside over the collapse of the ocean economy.
664
Rouhani said his government kept its word to Iranians when negotiating the framework deal, which was agreed upon Thursday and sets parameters for talks that could lead to a comprehensive deal by a June 30 deadline.
665
Manning, who is serving a 35-year prison sentence for leaking thousands of classified documents, appears to have joined Twitter this week.
666
"The Dark Knight Returns," published in 1986, is widely credited for resurrecting Batman in pop culture, something we've seen referenced in everything from 1989's "Batman" to the "Dark Knight" trilogy and the upcoming "Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice."
667
The state trooper stopped the bus carrying Nelly and five other people on Interstate 40 in Putnam County on Saturday because it wasn't displaying U.S. Department of Transportation and International Fuel Tax Association stickers, according to Tennessee authorities.
668
Warren Weinstein, a U.S. citizen who was abducted by al Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011, died along with another hostage, Italian Giovanni Lo Porto, in the attack that killed Farouq, according to the White House.
669
Israel Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said a 37-year-old Arab motorist from East Jerusalem struck two people standing at a bus stop in the French Hill section of the city.
670
CNN's African Voices caught up with the sister act -- known collectively as Faarrow (combining the translation of their names into English -- Iman means "Faith" and Siham means "Arrow") to talk about music, aspirations and Somalia.
671
Paramedics were called to the villa, which the family was renting.
Enck, the EPA regional administrator, said paramedics were called early on March 20.
672
Koch Industries' recent announcement that it will "ban the box" -- i.e., remove from its job applications the check-box that asks about convictions -- is a big step forward in the movement to break down barriers to employment for job-seekers with records.
673
But according to a jaw-dropping report by the Education Department, the average graduate of an online for-profit college makes less than a high school dropout.
674
Because the print and broadcast media are so totally government controlled, mainstream journalists seldom go to jail any more in Vietnam.
675
(CNN)Greenpeace activists have climbed aboard a Shell oil rig to protest the company's plans to drill in the Arctic near Alaska.
676
"Nina is excited to spread her wings, get some rest, travel the world and also take it by storm, and we support her a thousand-fold," she said in the statement, according to media accounts.
677
The reason people are seeing an intense red sunset is a result of smoke particles filtering out the shorter wavelength colors from the sunlight like greens, blues, yellows and purples, KOMO-TV said.
678
(CNN)This time, it's official: Russia expects North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to visit Moscow next month for World War II anniversary celebrations.
679
Mahmoud was out running errands when ISIS fighters arrived, taking his wife, Ahlam, their three children -- the youngest of which was just a month old -- and his elderly parents.
680
Set up as a refugee camp for Palestinians in the 1950s, it slowly evolved into a neighborhood over the years, but since 2012 it has been engulfed in the Syrian conflict.
681
Of course, there is a difference between single-celled organisms -- which developed 3.8 billion years ago and remained the most sophisticated form of life for another billion years or so -- and mammals, which appeared about 200 million years ago.
682
A logic problem from a Singapore math test somehow spread across the Web, leaving millions trying to figure out the hypothetical birthday of someone named Cheryl.
Actor Jon Cryer charmed fans on CBS's "Late Show" by reprising his character's record-store dance to Otis Redding's "Try a Little Tenderness," right down to the wall-dancing and counter-bashing.
683
Everybody had already tried, his son said.
"I said, 'Listen, I can help you make this fight happen,'" Salvador said in an interview with CNN.
684
The Middlesex District Attorney's Office said that Carlos Colina, 32, will be arraigned the morning of April 14 for murder in connection with the remains discovered Saturday in Cambridge.
685
The photographer, Daniel Ramos, had filed the civil suit against West  after the hip-hop star attacked him and tried to wrestle his camera from him in July 2013 at Los Angeles International Airport.
Talk to me, Kanye!"
686
No one is sure, but the headstone of Hillary Clinton's father, Hugh Rodham, was found tipped over this week, just a couple of days after she announced her run for the White House.
687
The fact is that Iran has a well-established record of lying and concealing the elements of its nuclear program to U.N. inspectors.
688
Slough was convicted of 13 counts of voluntary manslaughter, 17 counts of attempted manslaughter and a firearms offense.
He has not yet been sentenced.
689
According to Section 210402 of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, "The Attorney General shall, through appropriate means, acquire data about the use of excessive force by law enforcement officers.
690
As Pope Francis prepared to celebrate a special Mass Sunday to commemorate a century since the slaughter,  Vatican watchers were divided about whether he would use the word "genocide."
691
Turkey's former ambassador to the Vatican, Kenan Gursoy, told CNN in a telephone interview that while it is the first time Turkey has summoned its ambassador home from the Vatican, "This does not mean that our diplomatic ties with the Vatican are over."
692
They were exposed to Ebola in Sierra Leone in March, but none developed the deadly virus.
They are clinicians for Partners in Health, a Boston-based aid group.
693
In addition to its 11 channels, TV5Monde also temporarily lost control of its social media outlets and its websites, director Yves Bigot said in a video message posted later on Facebook.
694
Boston (CNN)Adrianne Haslet-Davis and her husband, Adam Davis, were standing near the finish line on the day of the Boston Marathon bombing.
Sean Collier always wanted to be a cop, said his brother.
695
"Sugar" holds at No. 2 on Digital Songs (143,000, down 8 percent); rises 4-2 on Radio Songs (133 million, up 3 percent); and keeps at No. 4 on Streaming Songs (9.5 million, down 4 percent).
696
In November of 2013, the Italian Navy launched a €9M-a-month search-and-rescue program called Mare Nostrum, in which Italian naval ships patrolled the seas to rescue migrants.
697
Suddenly, he's set to buy his own place and collect a nice pension.
With those papers squared away, he and Inman got Helinski a driver's license and a Social Security card.
698
At one call center in Moscow, where the public are encouraged to pitch their Putin questions, officials say more than 200,000 questions were submitted in the first hour after lines opened.
699
I employed the term during an impromptu speech as I struggled to find an expression to convey the catastrophic tragedy of autism, which has now destroyed the lives of over 20 million children and shattered their families."
700
Orphans, inmates, psychiatric patients and prostitutes were deliberately infected with sexually transmitted diseases to determine what drugs, including penicillin, worked best in stopping the diseases, the lawsuit says.
701
Tokyo (CNN)A week after a Japanese court issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in a western prefecture, a different court has rejected a petition by residents to delay the reactivation of reactors in the country's southwest.
702
Last year, Spieth lost the lead just before the nine-hole turn on the last day -- but he never looked like being denied this time, beating Phil Mickelson's Masters record of 26 birdies for good measure.
703
Fans with tickets for Tuesday's game must exchange them for tickets for any remaining home game, including May 28.
704
So far, Prime Minister Abe's appearance has garnered much less attention than last month's speech to Congress by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
705
Nick Paton Walsh's Afghanistan series: Afghan forced to marry her rapist .
But here, now, that seems far away.
And it is far away in terms of its cost.
706
President Obama briefly met his Cuban counterpart, Raul Castro, on Friday night at a dinner for the dozens of Latin American leaders convening in Panama City for the Summit of the Americas.
707
However, Warren said the two Republican candidates who have gotten into the race -- Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul -- have already disqualified themselves in her eyes because of how they've voted in Congress.
708
(CNN)"Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" star and former child actress Kim Richards is accused of kicking a police officer after being arrested Thursday morning.
709
Anger over Gray's death may have spurred Monday's violence -- including buildings and cars set ablaze by rioters, looting and clashes with the  police -- but members of Baltimore's clergy said it was also spurred by lasting issues with young African-Americans in the city.
710
Negotiations between Iran and the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council -- China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States -- plus Germany began in 2006 and have had a tortured history.
711
An officer apparently took his Taser out, and was prepared to use it on Gray, but he never deployed it, Rodriguez said, and none of the six officers involved in the arrest describe using force against the 25-year-old.
712
Kim describes seemingly endless days of soldiers lined up outside the brothel, called a "comfort station."
There was always a long line of soldiers.
713
Mark Arabo, a Chaldean-American leader and spokesman for the group Ending Genocide in Iraq, claims that Iraqi Christian children have been beheaded, mothers raped and fathers killed by ISIS militants in recent months.
714
"Avengers: Age of Ultron" succeeds in the top priority of creating a worthy opponent for its superheroes and giving the latter a few new things to do, but this time the action scenes don't always measure up and some of the characters are left in a kind of dramatic no-man's-land.
715
(CNN)Actress Linda Thompson, Bruce Jenner's second wife, says she can "breathe a little easier" knowing her ex-husband has found the strength to publicly declare he is transgender.
716
The last film," Fast & Furious 6," debuted to a franchise-best $117 million over the four-day Memorial Day weekend in 2012, including $97.4 million for the three days, on its way to grossing $788.7 million worldwide.
717
Lee will stay in his official role until South Korean President Park Geun-hye accepts his resignation.
Park has said that she is taking the accusations very seriously.
718
"Mean Girls Day" is officially October 3, given that's when Aaron Samuels (OMG, he is so hot!) asks Cady what day it is.
October 21, 2015 .
719
(CNN)ISIS fighters seized several districts in the Iraqi city of Ramadi in an hours-long assault Friday that included suicide and car bombs, an Iraqi provincial official said.
720
Fredericka Gray, the twin sister of Freddie Gray, made a statement: "My family wants to say, 'Can y'all please, please stop the violence?
721
(CNN)Remains of up to nearly 400 unaccounted for service members tied to the USS Oklahoma at Pearl Harbor will be exhumed this year, the Defense Department announced Tuesday.
722
What Downey seemed to misunderstand is that the interview format gives journalists the right to ask questions.
The actor has agreed to an interview as part of his job.
723
In fact, what we need, not only in communities like Baltimore but also in communities around the country, are more mothers like her.
724
They had planned to hand out stickers with slogans saying "stop sexual harassment, let us stay safe" and "go police, go arrest those who committed sexual harassment!" on International Women's Day.
725
In January, the NFL launched an investigation into the Patriots to determine why 11 of the 12 game balls they provided for the AFC Championship game were underinflated.
726
"Like you, I was a target of militants who did not want girls to go to school," she writes in the letter.
Malala is admired globally as a figure standing for peace.
727
Officers arrested one Venezuelan and two Spanish citizens who were on board the vessel off the coast of Martinique on Wednesday, Lachaux said in an interview with the radio station France Info on Saturday.
728
He was a year and a half old when he started on "Raymond," playing next to his real-life twin brother Sullivan, who starred as Michael Barone, according to the website IMDb.
729
Delta Air Lines came in second place with 5.6 million U.S. award seats; United Airlines ranked third with 5 million U.S. award tickets; and American Airlines was fourth with 3.5 million U.S. award seats.
730
(CNN)Tornadoes, fierce winds and severe thunderstorms with large hail are predicted for the Midwest and for the Plains, from the Ozarks eastward to the lower Ohio Valley, on Thursday and Friday, the National Weather Service said.
731
Nineteen at the time of his arrest, Czugaj is one of five of the Bali Nine whose sentence was reduced to 20 years in prison, then reinstated at life again.
732
people have been sentenced to life in prison for their roles in the 2012 attack on Nobel Peace Prize-winning activist Malala Yousafzai, a judge announced Thursday.
733
Sefolosha did not specify his injury in his statement Tuesday, but the Hawks said last week that he has a fractured fibula and ligament damage, will undergo surgery and will miss the rest of the season, including the playoffs, which begin this weekend.
734
And she's off to a good start.
And it came the night after Schumer appeared on CBS' "The Late Show" and turned David Letterman red-faced when she lifted her dress to show him a scar she got from surfing and said, "That's my vagina."
735
It has been 42 days since the last known case of B3 strain of measles, the equivalent of two successive incubation periods, said Dr. Karen Smith, director of the health department.
736
A national crisis requires a national response, and that means that federal, state and local law enforcement leaders and organizations must honestly and aggressively move to end police brutality.
737
Farekh allegedly departed from Canada and headed to Pakistan with two other men in 2007 with the intention of fighting American forces abroad, prosecutors said.
738
We share an unwavering belief that the United States must lead the world on climate change and seize opportunities for unity, growth and progress.
739
That's one of the reasons Swangard joined a California lawsuit last month seeking to let doctors prescribe lethal medications to certain patients who want to hasten death.
740
Carlsberg will remain very much inside Carlsberg City, making specialty beer and building a tourist center that is expected to attract half-a-million visitors per-year when it opens in 2017.
741
For starters, as a new trailer shows, Sue and Johnny Storm's father initiates the project that ends up giving the foursome their powers.
742
The film, which was directed by Olivier Dahan and focuses on a period in the early '60s when Monaco was involved in a stand-off over taxes with France and Grace was contemplating a return to Hollywood, was originally scheduled for release in late 2013.
743
One of her instructors, Kelly Fullwood, said Kekula's an excellent student who has taught her teachers a thing or two about how to do procedures without costly equipment, as she's been forced to do in Liberia.
"She gets nursing.
744
With reports that Lubitz apparently ignored those warnings, there are new calls from aviation experts to develop and deploy enhanced crash avoidance software that could take control of an aircraft away from a pilot and steer the plane to a safe altitude.
745
The U.S. Consulate was the target of the attack, ISIS said.
Security personnel fired at the car, which exploded but did not reach the consulate, a police official said.
746
Only traditional marriages are recognized under Japan's constitution, but the wording is vague enough to open it to interpretation, according to Mari Miura, a professor of gender and politics at Sophia University in Tokyo.
747
Twenty-two buffalo escaped from the farm on Thursday -- half the farm's stock -- including six that were shot Thursday night in Rensselaer County, Mesick said.
748
The Italian coast guard, however, told CNN that while it is taking the report seriously, it cannot confirm such an incident and has not yet found evidence at sea to indicate a migrant boat carrying approximately 550 has capsized with 145 rescued.
749
"The drought in California does have the potential to impact the price we pay for fresh fruit and fresh vegetables and dairy and fresh eggs we pay at the counter," Kuhns said.
750
As a co-owner of Charmington's, a cafe in the intersection of three major Baltimore neighborhoods, Rothschild knew that the cafe and its workers needed to support the city after all the unrest.
751
Unfortunately, a bureaucrat at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office decided that "Slant" was disparaging to Asians, and denied them a trademark registration under the despised (by me, anyhow) Section 2(a) of the trademark act.
752
The CDC and state health leaders held a news conference Friday to talk about the new numbers and about the growing threat of the spread of disease from IV drug use, especially in isolated rural areas that have sparse health resources.
753
"In other words, positive photos were not seen as positively under the influence of acetaminophen and negative photos were not seen as negatively," the authors reported.
754
On Wednesday, E. Royster Harper, University of Michigan's vice president for student life, said in a statement that "It was a mistake to cancel the showing of the movie 'American Sniper' on campus as part of a social event for students" and that the show will go on.
755
(CNN)The jailing of four Blackwater security guards, eight years after they killed 17 Iraqi civilians in a shooting in Baghdad, is a positive step for justice -- but is also not enough.
756
"Marvel's 'Daredevil,' Netflix's latest offering, is a well-scripted, beautifully acted superhero saga that is surprisingly impressive," said the Philadelphia Inquirer's Tirdad Derakhshani.
757
The new declaration by the American Pharmacists Association aligns with positions held by other professional medical organizations such as the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association and the American Board of Anesthesiology.
758
"We were shocked (and still are)," said King.
Burger King's message for the happy couple: "Congratulations, Joel and Ashley on falling in love your way."
759
(CNN)German police overnight thwarted a terrorist plot by a radicalized couple, a plan they suspect involved bombing a bicycle race near Frankfurt, a German terrorism researcher briefed by investigators told CNN on Thursday.
760
(Billboard)From Channing Tatum twerking for Jennifer Lopez to host Amy Schumer's archery fail, there were plenty of highlights and misfires from the 2015 MTV Movie Awards.
761
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says ISIS and the al Qaeda-affiliated Al-Nusra Front took control of 90% of the camp in southern Damascus.
762
Another piece of the state's case was grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system that prosecutors said showed him holding a .45-caliber handgun -- the same kind of gun police said was used to kill Lloyd.
763
In video captured by CNN affiliate WMAR, the woman is seen pulling her masked son away from a crowd, smacking him in the head repeatedly, and screaming at him.
764
For those hoping that will eventually happen, it's good that Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and senior European Union diplomat Helga Schmid held talks early Thursday morning in Lausanne.
765
Cummings said he "looked at the cameras" and reflected on the great amount of attention Gray was receiving in death: "Did anybody recognize Freddie Gray when he was alive?" he asked.
766
Biologists with the Oregon Coast Aquarium and Oregon State University's Hatfield Marine Science Center inspected the debris while it was still at sea and determined that the ecological threat posed by invasive species was small.
767
Fletcher, the former mayor turned City Council candidate, campaigned that Ferguson would benefit from his experience more than a newcomer, saying his contacts from almost three decades in politics would be an invaluable asset in getting Ferguson back on its feet.
768
While it's not surprising that Republicans are siding with big business and against working Americans in supporting the TPP, it's befuddling that President Obama supports it.
769
Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis, an ISIS affiliate, claimed responsibility for the attack, which came hours after another operation that the group also claimed.
770
(CNN)Tuesday is Equal Pay Day, the fictitious holiday marked by progressive women's groups as the point in the year women would have to work to make up for "lost" wages as a result of the so-called wage gap.
771
On Tuesday, Malala Yousafzai, the 17-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the face for speaking out in favor of girls' education, sent a message to the kidnapped girls.
772
He was working when the quake hit, tilling the fields like so many in Kavre, and ran back to his house after quickly realizing the force of the tremor.
773
The first ingredient in those caramel deLites is sugar, but they also contain corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup, for a total of 6 grams of sugar per cookie.
774
Deputy Robert Bates, who's been placed on administrative leave during the investigation, received his reserve status from the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office in 2008 and was assigned to the violent crime task force.
775
Dragon enroute to Space Station.
SpaceX has said it will keep trying and, after it masters landing at sea, hopes to someday land rockets on the ground.
776
This refers to the three days of Easter that begin with Good Friday, proceed through Holy Saturday, and conclude with Easter Sunday.
777
That warrant is not technically a criminal arrest warrant, but it sure seems like an arrest warrant if dad gets picked up on a Friday afternoon and has to wait in jail all weekend to see the judge on Monday.
778
(CNN)To allay possible concerns, Boston prosecutors released video Friday of the shooting of a police officer last month that resulted in the killing of the gunman.
After Moynihan was wounded and West killed, police and local leaders sought to allay community concerns at a time when officer-involved shootings have led to protests throughout the nation.
779
If the searchers haven't found anything by the time they've covered the entire 60,000-square-kilometer priority zone, the search will stretch into a new equally vast area, government officials from Malaysia, Australia and China announced Thursday.
780
An 87-year-old grandmother had her shoulder broken by overzealous police, and Sen. Rand Paul -- God bless him -- suggested the rise in absentee fathers is the reason for this latest clash.
781
In the past four years, according to a count by New America, the U.S. has launched a dozen drone strikes and six Special Operations raids against Al-Shabaab.
782
He tells CNN that the country will be formally founded on May 1 and is inviting, through the media, the world's heads of state to attend a formal ceremony marking the presumptive nation's birth.
783
This emerging class of Africa's new millionaires has been pushing the demand for luxury products across the continent, with sales of high-end products growing by a third between 2008 and 2013.
784
Canadian warplanes have conducted dozens of strikes against ISIS targets in Iraq since November.
The Canadian aircraft and their crews safely returned to base, the military said.
785
The house collapsed, burying the child, leaving his father Shyam Awal frantically searching for him amid the rubble.
786
The moon slipped fully into Earth's shadow at 4:58 a.m. Pacific Time (7:58 a.m. ET) Saturday, starting a total lunar eclipse for nearly five minutes -- what NASA says will be the shortest such eclipse of the century.
787
(CNN)Bahamian R&B singer Johnny Kemp, best known for the 1988 party anthem "Just Got Paid," died this week in Jamaica.
788
Nairobi, Kenya  (CNN)Kenya froze dozens of accounts linked to suspected terror supporters after militants massacred 147 people last week at a university in Garissa.
789
8 top tips in making rejection work for you: . 1 - The fear of rejection holds us back a lot more than actual rejection.
4 - Don't run away after a no.
790
(CNN)Two passengers found dead on a cruise ship in Puerto Rico appear to have died in a murder-suicide, the cruise line said.
791
Lewis Hamilton took victory for the Silver Arrows at the Chinese Grand Prix -- only for his teammate Nico Rosberg to later claim he had ruined his race by driving slowly.
792
Although Canberra then, as it is now, was strongly opposed to the death penalty, Van's death did not harm Australia's relationship with Singapore, nor the Australian people's view of that country.
793
That report, by department Inspector General Michael Horowitz, cited light punishments and poor handling of sexual misconduct cases at DEA and other Justice Department agencies.
794
"Around 800,000 children have been forced to flee their homes as a result of the conflict in northeast Nigeria between Boko Haram, military forces and civilian self-defense groups," UNICEF said Monday.
795
The northern white rhino cannot mate with a black rhino, but there is a chance it could mate with a southern white rhino, Paul says.
796
(CNN)Tobacco companies including Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds filed suit this week against the Food and Drug Administration alleging that the FDA is violating the companies' free speech rights.
797
Fans of "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" often got to see the sometimes strained relationship between Bruce and his wife Kris.
How fans will react .
798
"Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders, forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea," he said.
799
(CNN)Countries around the world have launched massive aid operations to help victims of the Nepal earthquake, but distribution of aid faces challenges as Nepal is still trying to come to terms with the scale of the disaster.
800
The Miami-Dade Police Department set up the camera as part of an ongoing police investigation into luggage thefts by the very airport workers who are supposed to get bags safely onto planes.
801
Although it's not a total uniform makeover, police officials said the white shirts will make command-level staff immediately identifiable to those who don't recognize the rank badges on officers' collars, the statement said.
802
(CNN)The killing of an employee at Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, may have been a hate crime, authorities said Tuesday.
803
The auction house said 24 lots of an original collection of works of art and crafts were removed.
"It should be returned as a gift."
804
(CNN)ISIS on Wednesday released more than 200 Yazidis, a minority group whose members were killed, captured and displaced when the Islamist terror organization overtook their towns in northern Iraq last summer, officials said.
805
The founder of the Facebook group would like to see the statue replaced with a new one outside a planned Comedy Hall of Fame in Jamestown, home to the Lucy-Desi Museum & Center for Comedy and the annual Lucille Ball Comedy Festival.
806
In her April 28 petition, Morris says Mitchell is unconscious: "At this time she (Mitchell) remains unconscious and unable to make any responses, and is therefore unable to provide for any of her personal needs."
807
He later then called the victim -- his personal assistant -- on the phone and said, "I'm going to come over and kill you."
808
My dad said two Americans in the group were sick because of the weather and altitude, and since the people were older, they couldn't walk to help," she said.
809
(CNN)The Force is strong in Turkey -- or at least it appears to be at one university where thousands of students are petitioning for a Jedi temple to be built on campus.
810
A sharp spike in death sentences recorded in 2014 -- up more than 500 on the previous year -- can also be attributed to governments using the death penalty as a political tool.
811
My excuse always has been that Catholics have their Bible passages read to them at Mass every Sunday.
Still, it made me wonder: Why I had not read the Good Book cover to cover?
812
While speaking in Norwalk, Iowa, Clinton said during a discussion about immigration reform that "all my grandparents, you know, came over here" even though only one was really an immigrant.
813
The student was identified during an investigation by campus police and the office of student affairs and admitted to placing the noose on the tree early Wednesday, the university said.
814
Last year, Congress took bipartisan action to phase out reliance on the RD-180 engine by the end of the decade, and to transition to an all-American space launch capability.
815
They look like men who could be carpenters, if not in Nazareth, than at least in the Mediterranean neighborhood.
"That means the audience base is shifting in various and important ways."
816
Whilst working on the Kiira, the team is also developing an 28-seater electric bus which will run on a mixture of electric and solar power.
817
The former North Charleston police officer is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott.
He tells her: "Hey.
Hey, everything's OK.
818
Dysart, who also played Coach in the original 1972 Broadway production of Jason Miller's Pulitzer Prize-winning "That Championship Season," died Sunday at home in Santa Monica after a long illness, his wife, artist Kathryn Jacobi, told The Hollywood Reporter.
819
Of the six officers, three were on bikes and initially approached Gray, another made eye contact with Gray, another officer joined in the arrest after it was initiated and one drove the police van, Kowalczyk said.
820
Almost all the old Confederate States are now considered "Red" (Republican), while the Union States are "blue" (Democrat) -- a residual variation of Big Federal Government versus States' Rights paradigm of the Civil War era.
821
"Be ready all day, every day for the next few days, because you might receive the call to go," the smuggler told me.
Finally we reached the boat.
822
Indonesian President Joko Widodo appeared to shrug off the diplomatic recall, telling reporters that "our legal sovereignty must be respected.
823
Unfortunately, rather than expanding national attention to encompass the dangers of both radical Islam and right-wing extremism, the 9/11 attacks simply shifted attention away from the extreme right.
824
Because not too long after Veronica received her initial response from Springs Creative, Wardy said she got a call from the company, asking her to post a statement from Springs Creative on her site.
825
After the blast, Mims said, two sheriff's deputies who were at the firing range ran toward the fire to move the injured.
The others suffered mostly burns.
826
So the GOP establishment is putting a priority on candidate recruitment and hoping to build on its 2014 successes, which you might recall included an aggressive effort to discourage or defeat tea party candidates viewed as too risky by the establishment.
827
I learned that riots in the 1960s played a role in advancing the civil rights agenda, often by galvanizing local and national government officials to work with peaceful community, church and civil rights leaders to address the root causes of riots.
828
Engraved with the words, "Darling Joe, Happy 70th Birthday 2009. Love Jenny," the antique ring lodged in the rocks clearly meant something to both Joe and Jenny.
829
They said that as the cargo ship King Jacob approached late Saturday, migrants on the smaller boat moved to one side, hoping to be saved, and caused the vessel to capsize.
830
Many Jewish holidays, including Passover, fall on full moon, which is also a prerequisite for a lunar eclipse, the event that turns the moon a blood red color.
831
Geophysicists have long monitored how fast the Earth's plates are moving, and we know that the entire subcontinent of India is being driven slowly but surely underneath Nepal and Tibet at a speed of around 1.8 inches per year.
832
(CNN)The justices of the Supreme Court practice politics as much as law -- and that will be clearer than ever when the issue of same-sex marriage comes before the court on Tuesday.
833
Netanyahu made the request at President Reuven Rivlin's Jerusalem home Monday.
"I wish you success in your work," Rivlin told the Prime Minister, according to a statement.
834
The exchanges between the city's top court clerk and two police officers were discovered during a U.S. Justice Department investigation of racial prejudice in the city's police and judicial system.
835
O.C. Marsh first named the Brontosaurus in 1879, after he received 25 crates of bones discovered at Como Bluff, Wyoming, according to the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History.
836
Years ago, Rock filmed a sketch for his "Chris Rock" show on HBO in which he detailed ways to avoid being beaten by police as a black man.
837
Oatway's series of images of the ordeal landed on the front page of South Africa's Sunday Times under the headline, "Kill thy neighbor: Alex attack brings home SA's shame."
838
Atlanta (CNN)Robert Lewis Burns Jr., the original drummer in Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, died Friday night in a car crash, a Georgia State Patrol spokesman said.
839
Toting a 30-year-old Hasselblad 500cm camera, Sandretto found it was a good way to strike up a conversation with her subjects.
Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography.
840
His take-down and arrest without probable cause occurred under a police video camera, which taped everything including the police dragging and throwing Freddy into a police vehicle while he screamed in pain," attorney William Murphy Jr. said in a statement.
841
"The Florida Forest Service and Miami-Dade Fire Rescue have worked around the clock to protect Southwest Miami-Dade County," Florida Agriculture Commissioner Adam H. Putnam said in a statement.
842
Essawi said ISIS militants made significant advances Wednesday in three areas east of Ramadi: Albu Soda, Albu Ghanem and parts of Soufia, which leads to central Ramadi.
843
That's the trending question on social media, thanks to a photo of a cat coming down some stairs.
Others are commenting about the construction of the stairs.
844
(CNN)The United States and its negotiating partners reached a very strong framework agreement with Iran in Lausanne, Switzerland, on Thursday that limits Iran's nuclear program in such a way as to effectively block it from building a nuclear weapon.
845
Hollywood Reporter: "Fast 8" nowhere near starting line .
Hollywood Reporter:
People we've lost in 2015 .
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter
846
That includes how UVA officials handled the allegations in the discredited Rolling Stone article by a student the magazine called "Jackie," especially since the school knew about the allegations for more than a year before the article came out.
847
But they do leave their trash.
The Indian expedition isn't the first attempt to clean up the trash left by generations of hikers.
848
Delhi (CNN)An international human rights group is calling for an independent investigation of the killings by police of 20 suspected red sandalwood smugglers in southeastern India.
849
In his autobiography, "Threshold Resistance: The Extraordinary Career of a Luxury Retailing Pioneer," Taubman said that when he "looked over the horizon, I saw that there was money to be made by people who could build and own stores or, better yet, groups of stores."
850
Boxing great Muhammad Ali, also an American Muslim, appealed to Tehran last month to give Rezaian full access to legal representation and free him on bail.
851
(CNN)Chris Copeland of the Indiana Pacers was stabbed after leaving a trendy New York nightclub early Wednesday, and two Atlanta Hawks -- who had just finished a home game hours before the incident -- were among those arrested, according to police and CNN affiliates.
852
Alasholuyi says he believes in miracles and hopes his passion, commitment and determination to help the Chibok girls through his daily photos will one day bring them home safely.
853
"Any further violation of the personal conduct policy by Peterson would result in additional discipline, which could include suspension without pay or banishment from the NFL," the league said in a statement.
854
(CNN)They're not gonna take it anymore.
Twisted Sister's biggest hit, "We're Not Gonna Take It," hit the Top Forty in 1984 and was featured in a popular video.
855
On FM, Norwegians can only find five stations.
Officials say the move will spur innovation because the cost of digital transmission will save some $25 million.
856
Promotes thoracic spine rotation and shoulder girdle function; stabilizes low back; activates glutes (primary muscles of the buttocks); encourages ankle mobility, strengthens adductors (groins), core and legs .
857
About a week ago, Laney Griner, Justin's wife and Sammy's mother, created a GoFundMe campaign with a goal of $75,000 to help cover the medical expenses that go along with a kidney transplant.
858
Sea Glass Vacations, which acts as a rental agent for several units at Sirenusa, said the unit directly below the one where the family stayed was recently treated for pests, but their unit was not treated.
859
The HBO documentary is based on the book "Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief" by Lawrence Wright and is critical of the organization, which has close ties to the showbiz industry.
860
"You're going to feel dizzy and woozy and lightheaded, and you're not going to be able to breathe," Johnson recalled the flight attendant saying.
861
"Unless the Senate passes the House-passed 'doc fix,' significant cuts to physicians' payments will begin tomorrow," Boehner said.
862
CNN)Brazilian police have arrested the treasurer of the ruling Workers' Party, bringing the bribery investigation at the state-run oil company Petrobras a step closer to President Dilma Rousseff.
863
Fans on Twitter and Facebook mostly praised the movie's ending as a fitting tribute -- and an emotionally wrenching one.
I saw it 3 times in one day ...
864
Wood said he got them from Bates, who asked the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office to provide his training records.
CNN provided the documents to the Tulsa World.
865
In 2002, Fox unveiled plans for an adaptation timed to the 30th anniversary that never came to fruition.
The faces of pilot season 2015 .
866
On April 17, 1975 -- 40 years ago today -- life as Ly knew it was shattered when her hometown, the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh, fell to the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime of the Communist Party of Kampuchea.
867
One of MESSENGER's big findings: It sent back data indicating that ice in Mercury's shadowed polar regions, if spread over an area the size of Washington, would be more than two miles thick, NASA said.
868
The Pope turned to economic oppression: "We ask for peace and freedom for the many men and women subject to old and new forms of enslavement on the part of criminal individuals and groups," he said.
869
Once my formal swim class ended in February I found myself seriously slacking on my swim training.
So when times get tough, partner up!
870
The fourth season of "Game of Thrones" saw massive battles, major deaths (Tywin!) and White Walkers, but what can fans expect Sunday as we head into a fifth season of one of the most popular shows in HBO history?
871
"My view has always been that to perform an interview with him at the Ecuadorian embassy in London would lower the quality of the interview, and that he would need to be present in Sweden in any case should there be a trial in the future," Ny said.
872
Four weeks in, Alvarenga said his partner -- 23-year-old Ezequiel Cordova, according to the boat's owner -- died because he refused to eat raw birds.
873
Two Florida corrections officers and one former officer trainee have been charged in a plot to kill a former inmate who was getting out of prison, the Florida Attorney General's office said Thursday.
874
It was partially funded by former al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, according to the Council on Foreign Relations.
(Al-Shabaab means "the youth.")
Abu Mansour al-Amriki, a former Al-Shabaab fighter and prolific English-language propagandist for the group, said in a video posted online last year that he had a fallout with Al-Shabaab "regarding matters of the Sharia and matters of strategy" and feared for his life.
875
Finn, who led the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph, Missouri, was found guilty in 2012 of failure to report suspected child abuse.
876
On the 2008 campaign trail, Obama promised to use the word "genocide" to describe the 1915 massacre by Turks of Armenians -- a pledge he made when seeking Armenian-American votes.
877
Sazerac responded that propylene glycol exists in Fireball "in very small quantities" -- less than 1/8th of the amount allowed by the FDA (PDF) -- and reassured customers that Fireball is "absolutely safe to drink."
878
Willis played a major role in creating some of the most memorable neon work in the city.
Today it can be found on everything from T-shirts to refrigerator magnets.
879
"True to DARPA's mission, EXACTO has demonstrated what was once thought impossible: the continuous guidance of a small-caliber bullet to target," said Jerome Dunn, DARPA program manager.
880
Asked why the family waited to leave the war-torn region of Eastern Ukraine, Liora says they felt they would be fine in Donetsk, while Liora prayed for their safety from Israel.
881
And in his obituary, his family made just two requests: please donate to a children's hospital, and please don't vote for Clinton.
Rest in peace, Sir."
882
Little things like using a fork, going out at night, tucking into bed without anyone checking on you; they're all strange for someone like Hinton who spent nearly 30 years on Alabama's death row.
883
"I can't hide my happiness for the women but being released on bail is not the end of their ordeal," echoed Li's lawyer Yan Xin on Chinese social media.
884
"It looks to us like there was one group of closely related strains related to ice cream from one factory and another different group related to a different factory," Tauxe said.
885
"And it's the largest one found since April 16, 2014, when a 6.19-carat white diamond, named the Limitless Diamond, was found at the park," he said, according to a park press release.
886
The vehicle is then seen zooming forward, back into camera range, running over Sloan a second time, and then running over the second man, Carter, a former rap music label owner.
887
Dr. Dayo Adeyanju, Ondo's state commissioner for health, said 18 people have died and five people are being treated.
888
"The fallacy and satanic mindset of Al-Shabaab is that in Somalia, they kill Muslims and Somalis," Jama said.
That is a tricky way of doing business."
889
Gupta helped doctors at Bir Hospital in Kathmandu perform a craniotomy in a makeshift operating room on a young patient as described in this story; it is the identity of the patient that is in question.
890
One focus of the features will be the sound effects of the movies, including that of the insect-like Geonosians, as seen in "Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones."
891
U.S. officials knew they were targeting an al Qaeda compound in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region in the January counterterrorism operation, Obama said, but they didn't know that the hostages were also there.
892
A militant group called Jaish al Adal claimed responsibility for the attack, according to Iranian state media and a Twitter account believed to be associated with the organization.
893
The al-Furqan Media video -- which is highly produced and titled "Until There Came to Them Clear Evidence" -- shows two groups of men, one in orange jumpsuits and the other in black, being killed at different locations in Libya, according to the video's narrator.
894
The parents left the home several months ago with the other five children, ranging in age from 1 to 9 years old, but, according to Patty, "they left the 3-year-old child and the 17-year-old sister at the residence alone."
895
"In the refugee camps, thousands of school-age refugee children cannot attend school because of lack of classrooms and teachers," Ahua said.
896
Sleuths desperately tried to find a link between the two cases, but investigators said there was no evidence that Gricar's disappearance had anything to do with Sandusky's crimes.
897
Bates' attorney said his client is left-handed.
"I shoot long guns left handed and handguns right handed," Bates said in a written statement to investigators.
898
That view was commonly shared.
On Wednesday, Bauman said the verdict "will never replace the lives that were lost and so dramatically changed."
899
Corliss died a week after suffering a major stroke, according to a tribute on Time's website by colleague Richard Zoglin, who called him "perhaps the magazine's most quoted writer of all time."
900
Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners started pounding Houthi positions across Yemen starting on March 26, hoping to wipe out the Iranian-allied rebel group that overthrew the Yemeni government and seized power.
901
"And that's what these cases are all about.
This is about the government coming in saying, 'No -- we're going to make you do this.'
902
Not only did P!nk's response rally her fans, but they also started sharing their own photos of themselves post-pregnancy and embracing what P!nk tells her daughter is her "squishiness."
903
Beijing (CNN)China's state prosecutors on Friday formally charged the country's former security czar with accepting bribes, making him the highest-ranking Chinese Communist Party official ever to face corruption charges.
904
The person responsible is the man's mother, who on Sunday faced a host of charges after allegedly abandoning her son and catching a bus to Maryland to see her boyfriend, said Philadelphia police Lt. John Walker.
905
Politicians should consider reducing nonviolent offenses from felonies to misdemeanors, and end mandatory sentencing for nonviolent crimes.
906
On Tuesday, a deal was reached on legislation proposed by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker that would require President Barack Obama to submit the final deal to Congress, giving it 52 days to review and approve the agreement.
907
It is very, very hard," said Koirala, the founder of the nonprofit Maiti Nepal and the 2010 CNN Hero of the Year.
I was afraid about what is going to happen next."
908
The cable through the lever and trigger couldn't be taken off, an officer was told by an employee of the Walmart where Valencia took the gun and some rounds of ammunition.
909
"I seen that guy hanging there and he was trying to beat the window out or the door open and I was like 'Oh man,' 'cause only like five links were hanging there," Warnock told KXLY, a CNN affiliate.
910
(CNN)A family trip to a Nebraska zoo turned terrifying for one family after the gorilla they were looking at leaped toward the exhibit window, cracking it.
911
Photographer Laurence Rasti, the Swiss-born daughter of Iranian parents, flew from her home in Geneva, to Denizli to explore her fascination with identity issues in Iran.
912
"Unfortunately, Gulnaz was heavily pressured to marry her attacker by various people within the government which, in and of itself, was immensely disappointing," her former attorney, an American citizen named Kimberley Motley, tells us.
913
We have high quality cameras, high quality sets, high quality actors," says Bob Werley, one of the actors in "The Crawler in the Dark."
914
(CNN)It is not hard to imagine the conversations inside the Hillary Clinton camp prelaunch: How do we take the best known woman in the world and make her seem like less of a big shot?
915
Eritreans and Syrians made up half of the migrant traffic to Europe last year, according to Arezo Malakooti, director of migration research at Altai Consulting and author of one of the most detailed studies of migration patterns.
916
After Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, a Republican, signed his state's religious freedom bill into law, CEOs of companies big and small across the country threatened to pull out of the Hoosier state.
917
When Pope Francis said, "If a person is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge?"
"I think Pope Francis is conservative in the right way.
918
The Supreme Court rejected her petition for a judicial review in March but her lawyers were still preparing to file a second review on Monday.
919
(CNN)Their relationship led to jail time for her, but Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau wants the world to know that she and her husband, Vili Fualaau, are still happily together.
920
(CNN)Percy Sledge, the R&B belter whose biggest hit, "When a Man Loves a Woman," became a cornerstone of soul music, died Tuesday.
921
Even though NuvaRing has about the same risk for blood clots as newer birth control pills, Henry said she wishes she had known that the incidence of life-threatening blood clots is double with NuvaRing compared to older birth control pills.
922
(CNN)If newly revised NYPD training materials are approved by a federal judge, new cadets could be taking courses reminding them "not to engage in racial profiling."
923
Okawa was born on March 5, 1898.
According to Guiness World Records, the oldest person ever was Jeanne Louise Calment, who died at age 122 in 1997.
924
(CNN)If there was ever any doubt that the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan is an energy policy plan, not a carbon reduction plan, all you have to do is look at how they treat nuclear energy.
925
Police said, too, that some of the suspects were involved in a Pakistani market bombing in 2009 in which more than 300 people were killed and injured .
926
Some days they meet with teachers, and some days they work online, according to Anne Pasco, who heads the school's educational technology efforts.
927
We and other relief organizations will be doing everything we can to help get Nepal back on its feet without having to wait for more people to die from diseases that will inevitably come from contaminated water and the like.
928
And what happened in the 30 minutes before he was taken to a hospital?
What happened: .
The aftermath: .
Help me, Dad."
The aftermath: .
"Help me, help me," he said, according to a report by the Los Angeles Board of Police Commissioners.
929
"He represents the former colonial representation of this country -- supremacy, racism, misogyny," says Ramabina Mahapa, president of the students' Representative Council, which led the fight to remove the statue.
930
"If Hillary Clinton can't win an election," potential female candidates will ask, "How can I?"
After all, for decades, women who have run for office have performed just as well as men.
931
The resumption of the use of capital punishment in Belarus -- the only country in Europe and Central Asia to execute people -- after a two year hiatus spoiled an near-universal decrease in countries using the death penalty by region.
932
With the last major earthquake in 1934, the concern was not if, but when the next "great" earthquake would hit, said Ravilious, author of the 2014 article, "Kathmandu's earthquake nightmare.
933
"When the Air Self Defense Force detects indications of an unidentified flying object that could violate our country's airspace, it scrambles fighter jets if necessary and makes visual observation," Nakatani said.
934
Her grandmother, 90 years old at the time, told Cetin that her real name was Heranus.
Society coming face to face with it is more important."
935
Alabama Department of Public Health issued a statement last week acknowledging a rise of synthetic marijuana usage and said there had been 98 overdoses suspected to be linked with "spice" in the previous month.
936
Wahlberg's film, to be titled "Patriots' Day," is being produced by CBS Films, which linked to the Deadline article from its website.
937
In a January poll from Bloomberg Politics and the Des Moines Register (PDF), O'Malley was at 1% among Iowa Democrats, while Webb found himself at 3%.
938
"As far as Mary Jane is concerned, her life has been spared for the moment and the reason is that the legal proceedings in the Philippines must be respected first in view of the fact that the illegal recruiter is now in custody," he told CNN Philippines.
939
Cairo (CNN)An Egyptian court has sentenced 71 people to life in prison for their role in the August 2013 burning of a Christian church in the Giza province village of Kafr Hakim, state news reports.
940
In a front-page opinion piece in The Boston Globe, Bill and Denise Richard wrote about the toll taken on their family after the death of their 8-year-old son, Martin.
941
(CNN)Nine British citizens were arrested in Turkey on Wednesday, suspected of trying to cross illegally into Syria, the Turkish military said on its website.
942
-- The American Jewish World Service .
-- International Relief Teams .
-- Islamic Relief USA .
-- Lutheran World Relief .
-- Real Medicine Foundation .
943
Not only was this the ACMs biggest audience ever, but the 2015 ACM Awards brought in the biggest audience for a live TV awards show ever.
944
Of the defendant, Quinn said: "Aaron Hernandez may have been a well-known New England Patriots football player.
What prison life will be like for Aaron Hernandez .
945
In 2008 Japan put its SELENE craft -- known in Japan as Kaguya, after a Japanese moon princess from a 10th century folk tale -- into orbit around the moon to gather data about its surface.
946
In a statement, Dent and his attorney Greg Rohl told CNN: "We are all ecstatic, especially Mr. Dent.
Dent told CNN at the time that he had never threatened nor bit the police officer.
947
We know that human-induced climate change is increasing the risk that an event such as this will happen, while at the same time we can't strongly blame climate change for the specific event happening right now.
948
On the other hand, FedEx argues that it is indeed a common carrier, performing the normal duties of a common carrier, because (a) it is engaged in the business of transportation of property and (b) it offers its services to the public generally.
949
But all that was threatened this week when people began mistaking them for Memories Pizza of Walkerton, Indiana, which made national headlines after its owners said they would refuse to cater a same-sex wedding.
950
As Kenyans mourned those killed last week in one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in the nation, citizens used social media to share the victims' stories, hopes and dreams.
951
In reality, only 12% of Swedish couples equally share the 480 days of leave, Bavman said, with women continuing to lead the way as the stay-at-home parent and men as the careerist.
952
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
ROLL CALL .
953
She closely followed the reaction from Iranians around the world and told CNN she saw an "explosion" of joy when the deal was finally struck.
954
It is also true that Christianity faces a legitimate threat of extinction in several parts of Iraq and Syria and it faces a growing threat in nations such as Nigeria.
955
But Netanyahu and Republican critics in Congress have complained that Iran won't have to shut down its nuclear facilities and that the country's leadership isn't trustworthy enough for the inspections to be as valuable as Obama says they are.
956
"After 30 years of dedicated efforts in building China into a manufacturing powerhouse, it would take a long time for India to build that kind of manufacturing capability," said Haiyan Wang, Managing Partner of the China India Institute.
957
Even if you don't live in one of the 10 happiest countries in the world, a visit to these happy places will give you a taste of what the locals enjoy every day.
958
"The acceptance of obesity is prevalent," according to Claire Putnam, an obstetrician and gynecologist who believes obesity is a national crisis right now.
959
The trial was originally slated for May 28, but Jake Wark, spokesman for the Suffolk County District Attorney's Office, said Wednesday the trial had been postponed and no new date had been set.
960
Garissa, Kenya (CNN)The Kenyan government says Mohamed Mohamud, also known by aliases Dulyadin and Gamadhere, is the mastermind of Thursday's Kenya university terror attack, according to a tweet from the country's Interior Ministry.
961
Local officials said methyl bromide is suspected to have been used improperly several times in the U.S. Virgin Islands, in different parts of the island; even the governor said his condominium complex was fumigated with it in 2013, without his knowledge.
962
Owen said the lawsuit reportedly filed by Loeb will now open new issues, and a California court will have to decide to whom the embryos belong.
963
In 2006, Robert Soto and Michael Russell attended an American Indian powwow while in possession of eagle feathers, in violation of the federal Eagle Protection Act, which outlaws the killing of bald and golden eagles and even picking their feathers off the ground.
964
West of Baghdad, Iraq (CNN)The call from Faleh Essawi, the deputy chief of the provincial council, who we were supposed to be meeting up with, came just as we were about to hit the bridge -- the only safe route from Baghdad to neighboring Anbar province.
965
Jon "Bones" Jones, the reigning UFC light heavyweight champion, is wanted for "his possible involvement in a hit-and-run accident" Sunday morning, Albuquerque police said.
966
The revised policy comes in response to a June ruling by a federal judge that said the old process was in violation of the Fifth Amendment's guarantee of due process.
967
He declined, and the young man asked his opinion about the shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager killed by a police officer in nearby Ferguson, Missouri, last summer, the man said.
968
"You could tell that they really loved what they did," Sherry Danello, vice president of patient care services and chief nursing officer at St. Joseph's/Candler, said on the hospital's Facebook posting.
969
The five -- who are members of China's Women's Rights Action Group -- had planned to hand out stickers printed with slogans saying "stop sexual harassment, let us stay safe" and "go police, go arrest those who committed sexual harassment!" on women's day.
970
Selena the One "will release new songs and videos, will collaborate with current hit artists, and aims to go on tour in 2018," said a statement on Selena's Facebook page.
971
Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy charged Mitchelle Angela Blair on Wednesday with killing her then 13-year-old daughter, Stoni Ann Blair, and her then 9-year-old son, Stephen Gage Berry.
972
(CNN)If there's one thing that hurts more than the saddle sores from cycling around China for 460 days, it's having the bike you did it on stolen just days before completing your epic trip.
973
She may have been travelling with Donna Joan Borup who is wanted for allegedly throwing a caustic substance in the eyes of a Port Authority police officer during an anti-apartheid protest at John F. Kennedy International Airport in 1981, the FBI said.
974
(CNN)Michele Bachmann is comparing President Obama to the co-pilot of the doomed Germanwings flight.
She said he told her: "Well Michele, it's just not that easy."
975
" Coloring books like Farrarons' pocket-sized volume bring a bit of calming and spirituality to the masses, but for some adult enthusiasts coloring is just a fun throwback to a simpler time, she added.
976
Speaking about the film in London, Gosling made clear that the city was at the heart of the project -- in fact, without Detroit's crumbling edifices there would be no film at all.
977
The key takeaway from the latest assessment of North Korea's nuclear capability is not in the actual number of warheads, but the type of warhead, as this gives a better clue to the future of the country's weapons capabilities.
978
(CNN)ESPN suspended reporter Britt McHenry for a week after a video of her berating a towing company employee surfaced Thursday.
979
An investigation by Human Rights Watch found  "a system of organized rape and sexual assault, sexual slavery, and forced marriage by ISIS forces," actions that the group says "are war crimes and may be crimes against humanity."
980
You don't call six police officers who kill a man without probable cause 'thugs,' but children who are frustrated and don't have an outlet, you call them 'thugs.'
981
And if there's a reason Hillary Clinton will be elected as our next president, it's not because she let us call her Hillary.
982
(The Hollywood Reporter)Add another fan-favorite character to the cast of next year's "X-Men: Apocalypse," with director Bryan Singer announcing via Instagram that Olivia Munn will play the telepathic Psylocke in the follow-up to "X-Men: Days of Future Past."
983
Yahya Rashid, a UK national from northwest London, was detained at Luton airport on Tuesday after he arrived on a flight from Istanbul, police said.
984
Climbers said it set off fresh avalanches on Mount Everest, where at least 17 people were reported to have been killed on Saturday.
985
"I take full responsibility for 'Scary Lucy,' though by no means was that my intent or did I wish to disparage in any way the memories of the iconic Lucy image," Poulin wrote in the letter (PDF).
986
On Thursday, Houthi rebels seized the presidential palace in the southern Yemeni port city of Aden, a neutral security official and two Houthi commanders in Aden told CNN.
987
Critics of the new opening to Cuba say Havana's harboring of fugitives like Charlie Hill is enough of a reason to maintain a hard line against the government of Raul Castro and keep Cuba on the State Department list of countries that support terrorism.
988
"Our panel can heat and cool the building itself -- the water inside the panel does the very same job as heating," says Gutai.
989
It is 2015.
The conscription referendums of October 28, 1916, and December 20, 1917, became a massive rallying point for people who opposed the war — or the federal government's domestic policies.
Copyright 2015 The Conversation.
990
(CNN)If you're famous and performing the American national anthem, be prepared to become a national hero or a national disgrace.
 Just ask Vince, Whitney, Roseanne, Jimi and Michael.
991
But some subjects would be banned -- democracy and political thought, also hotel management and tourism and archaeology.
 But ISIS is not that primitive," says Al-Tamimi.
992
"Legacy" was the sequel to the 1982 sci-fi film that took place inside a computer world known as the Grid and starred Jeff Bridges and Bruce Boxleitner.
993
(CNN)Oprah's in there.
So's Bill Murray, George Clooney, Scarlett Johansson, Jerry Seinfeld, Howard Stern, Tina Fey, Michael Keaton and Ray Romano.
994
(CNN)Erica Kinsman, a former Florida State University student who has accused star football player Jameis Winston of rape, has filed a lawsuit against the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback, her lawyer said Thursday.
995
Follows and Crombie reprised the roles in the sequels "Anne of Avonlea" (1987) and "Anne of Green Gables: The Continuing Story" (2000).
996
One that Pope Francis once owned just sold for $30,500, according to Castells, an auction house in Uruguay.
The proceeds will go to a school in Montevideo, Uruguay.
997
Photographer Jeff Gusky, who has been chronicling details of the site, describes the inscriptions -- and the underground city in which they were found -- as "breathtaking."
998
In 2011, then Boston Globe film critic Wesley Morris wrote, "Go on and laugh your Benetton, Kumbaya, Kashi, quinoa laugh, but it's true: The most progressive force in Hollywood today is the 'Fast and Furious' movies."
999
Although al Qaeda was behind the 1998 attack that killed more than 200 people, Al-Shabaab has killed many more Kenyans and is by far the country's most persistent tormenter, according to a University of Maryland study.
1000
Then you're not Marleni Olivo, who did exactly that, and in return is getting the new apartment she was asking for, said Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro.
1001
The Palestinians signed the ICC's founding Rome Statute in January, when they also accepted its jurisdiction over alleged crimes committed "in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, since June 13, 2014."
1002
Lane Bryant's campaign is getting positive buzz in social media land, with the company being hailed for celebrating beauty of all shapes and sizes.
1003
Humans never have lived on a planet that's 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) warmer than it was before we started burning fossil fuels, in the late 1800s, and climate experts say we risk fundamentally changing life on this planet if we do cross that 2-degree mark.
1004
During an expedition through the Brittany region on the west coast of France, photographer Fabien Le Coq noticed an unusual tree.
1005
Alex Gavan, a mountaineer at the base camp, said Sunday on Twitter that ropes and other gear were being helicoptered to the people trapped above the icefall.
1006
In the days since the quake, injured people from the region have been told to find their way to Melamchi so they can be picked up by the relief flights, he says.
1007
(CNN)Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin signed a bill on Friday that would allow the state to perform executions with nitrogen gas if lethal injection is ruled unconstitutional or becomes unavailable.
1008
"I thought about shooting every white cop I see in the head until I'm either caught by the police or killed by them.
 Might kill at least 15 tomorrow, I'm plotting now."
1009
"In South Africa, everyone knows xenophobia," Sooliman said, "and the way a disaster agency works is we post what people understand.
1010
"I'd never worked with him or even met him before, but he'd shot the Babe films and I thought they looked amazing, the way he'd used backlight and the sun and natural light to create a very magical effect," Jackson said in a 2004 interview.
1011
(CNN)Anthony Ray Hinton is thankful to be free after nearly 30 years on Alabama's death row for murders he says he didn't commit.
1012
"Derek Shepherd is and will always be an incredibly important character -- for Meredith (Grey), for me and for the fans," show creator Shonda Rhimes said in a statement, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
1013
The fight took place in the food court area of Resorts World Casino where approximately 300 people were still at the scene when police arrived, according to the New York Police Department.
1014
In brief, the U.S. income tax system is increasingly a wage tax, with limited taxes on capital (what the rich have) and limited deductions for most of us.
1015
Carsten Pedersen, a Danish climber at Base Camp, said that he heard a steady stream of helicopters ferrying people from the mountains back to Base Camp throughout the morning.
1016
"Medical supplies need to be here yesterday.
Houthis and their allies, including those loyal to Hadi's predecessor, then fought Hadi's forces in the Aden area.
1017
Swiss physicist Jean-Pierre Wolf is working on yet another impressive addition to that list: using focused laser beams to affect the weather.
1018
We stand together,"  after a noose was found hanging from a tree on campus.
"You came here for the reason that you want to say with me, 'This is no Duke we will accept.
1019
The second woman who was recording had focused on the interaction between Paez and the marshals, who Paez said told her to stop recording.
1020
(CNN)Mercedes driver and F1 championship leader Lewis Hamilton stole pole position for Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix from teammate and fierce rival Nico Rosberg in dramatic fashion.
1021
The Georgian chess grandmaster has been banned from the Dubai Open Chess Tournament after officials discovered he was darting to the toilet to consult his smartphone, which was logged onto a chess analysis app, the Dubai Chess and Culture Club said.
1022
Sao Paulo, Brazil (CNN)Throngs of protesters packed the streets of major Brazilian cities on Sunday, pushing for the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff.
1023
His infallible first two rounds gave the 21 year old from Dallas, Texas a five shot lead going in to the third round.
"We saw what happened in 1996.
1024
It's not exactly a typical question, but Shreeves, who lives in Atlanta and is the site manager for the nonprofit Keep Atlanta Beautiful, lives what some may consider an atypical lifestyle: She creates almost no waste.
1025
When the time came for Soloman to travel, Henol says he was asked to go too but said no.
He hoped to give the legal route a little longer.
1026
The couple started their business as a medical cannabis dispensary in 2010, but when Colorado became the first state in the nation to allow the sale of recreational marijuana, they saw a once-in-a-lifetime business opportunity.
1027
For Cox, it's a blessing "to be able to come back home, and with Haleigh's medicine, it's done wonders for her -- going from 200-plus seizures a day and on her deathbed to a smiling, happy girl who says words now and looks us in the eye and lets us know she's in there."
1028
(CNN)The last three defendants prosecuted in the hazing death of Florida A&M drum major Robert Champion were convicted Friday of manslaughter and hazing with the result of death, reported CNN affiliate WFTV.
1029
Friends who were waiting for Melamed to cross the finish line said the university professor and motivational speaker is dedicated and motivated.
1030
(CNN)Thursday will mark three weeks since Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen.
And the number of dead continues to mount.
1031
Muhammadu Buhari, 72, won Nigeria's presidential election, defeating incumbent Goodluck Jonathan by about two million votes.
1032
She is believed to still be married to four men, and at one time, she was married to eight men at once, prosecutors say.
1033
(CNN)Three British citizens arrested in the United Arab Emirates after they were found plane spotting near Fujairah airport are to be released Monday, their lawyer, Nasser al-Hashem, tells CNN.
1034
Kenya's government says that attack was masterminded by senior Al-Shabaab leader Mohamed Mohamud, whose "extensive terrorist network within Kenya" extends into the sprawling Dadaab complex, according to a Kenyan government document given to CNN.
1035
He noted at his announcement (with a familiar note of wise irony):  "People should not underestimate me."
 Bernie won that seat, again and again.
1036
Goodacre:
Goodacre: There are several good translations of the Gospel of Mary.
Goodacre: There are no ancient texts in which Jesus had a wife.
1037
New York (CNN)Jake Tapper is the next anchor of CNN's Sunday morning political interview program "State of the Union."
1038
"We wrote "The Eureka Factor" to help people understand how creative insight works in the brain so they can use various strategies harmoniously without having them cross-circuit each other, " said Kounios.
1039
Franklin County Sheriff Pat Melton, the man leading the investigation into the estimated $26,000 in missing Pappy, said at the time that  the high-end heist was "indicative of an inside job."
1040
But for every tweet and Facebook post taking Memories Pizza to task were words of support and a groundswell of financial support.
1041
We still don't know what happened to Freddie Gray.
Here's the thing: Police officers who weren't there don't know what happened to Freddie Gray.
1042
The attack follows a separate incident Sunday in which three African Union troops died in an ambush in the Lower Shabelle region of Somalia.
1043
Years ago, when I told my father — a doctor from a long line of doctors — that I didn't want to follow in his footsteps, he told me that was fine, because medicine is a service trade, and anyone not interested in serving should avoid the profession.
1044
The chilly continent recorded the temperature (15.5 degrees Celsius) on March 24, possibly the highest ever recorded on Antarctica, according to the Weather Underground.
1045
"Cleveland!  
 
 Not that Charlie Cleveland could linger.
Cleveland's story delivered, I returned to the city desk to help with the calls.
1046
(CNN)The Tulsa County reserve deputy who fatally shot a man instead of using his Taser turned himself in to authorities Tuesday at the Tulsa County Jail.
1047
While the D.C. Metropolitan Police officer was at the scene, Baldwin drove up, said he was a police officer and asked to speak with the woman, the police document said.
1048
1½ cups tong baechu kimchi, or traditional fermented cabbage (can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store) 8 oz. sliced Korean rice cakes (can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store) 1 white onion, thinly sliced .
1049
"Impacts will likely vary by region, the sensitivity of populations, the extent and length of exposure to climate change impacts, and society's ability to adapt to change."
1050
Mosul has long been the big prize in the Iraqi government's fight -- aided by a U.S.-led military coalition, which has carried out airstrikes for months -- to defeat ISIS.
1051
The #FoodBankNYCChallenge is an attempt to live on a food stamp budget for one week, which translates to $1.38 per meal, according to the site.
1052
Paddy Power -- well-known for its use of publicity stunts -- used it to link to a piece showing statistics for games between Liverpool and Newcastle United ahead of their English Premier League match on Monday.
1053
The Montgomery County (Maryland) Department of Police took Parler, 41, into custody Sunday after Philadelphia police reported that she left her 21-year-old son in the woods while she hopped a bus to see her boyfriend in Maryland.
1054
From finding the right lighting, to which filter to chose: play the Instagram videos below to find out how to supercharge your pictures for social media success.
1055
(CNN)Two of the best actresses on television are back on "The Big Bang Theory" -- one of our six suggested things to watch this week.
1056
And his coaches didn't spend any time trying to convince the public that their star tight end was a decent, family-loving guy, as the league has done too many times in the past when its players got in trouble.
1057
Seoul, South Korea (CNN)The man accused of stabbing U.S. Ambassador Mark Lippert in Seoul last month is now charged with attempted murder, a South Korean court official said Wednesday.
1058
(CNN)Seven people -- including Illinois State University associate men's basketball coach Torrey Ward and deputy athletic director Aaron Leetch -- died when their small plane crashed while heading back from the NCAA tournament final.
1059
I forgive him.
O'Farrill: "The trial starting, I think, will kind of stir things up.
 And it just races in your head, if you let it, you know?
1060
Some supervisors at the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office were told to forge Reserve Deputy Robert Bates' training records, and three who refused were reassigned to less desirable duties, the Tulsa World newspaper reported.
1061
Dollar is focused in the video on getting his point across and slams critics of his original request by stating to the people gathered, "I never one time came to you and asked you for a dime for this airplane, did I?"
1062
(CNN)C-SPAN's live telecast of the White House Correspondents' Association dinner on Saturday night, hosted by Cecily Strong of "Saturday Night Live," was not Strong's finest hour, though the entire affair seemed like five of C-SPAN's longest hours.
1063
Certainly, you couldn't go far on Twitter (even before Clinton tweeted her announcement), without an opinion or thought on her new campaign (there were over 3 million views of her announcment tweets in one hour, and 750,000 Facebook video views so far by Sunday evening).
1064
Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015 .
Farley-Berens:  
 We are still going to be strong and we're going to celebrate life.  And you can't take that away from us."
1065
Executive producer Mark Wolper, son of the original's producer David L. Wolper, added, "Kunta Kinte began telling his story over 200 years ago and that story went through his family lineage, to Alex Haley, to my father, and now the mantle rests with me.
1066
Indor's organization wrote a letter to the National Insurance Institute of Israel -- the country's social security administration, which maintains the memorial site -- demanding that Abu Khdeir's name be removed from the memorial wall.
1067
"Girl's education is important because on the African continent, where there are not as many resources, the boys are the first [to get an education]," says Oduwole.
1068
He was holding his gun.
A Tulsa police official said the agency has 130 reserve deputies, many of them wealthy people who make donations to the police.
1069
CNN's producer was introduced to a Senegalese and Malian smuggler by an intermediary in Tripoli, who mistakenly thought she was a Syrian looking to bring other Syrian refugees with her onto boats to Italy.
1070
The baby was a bit tardy, going past his due date by more than a week.
The baby will come when the baby comes."
Dillard has a ways to go to catch up with her mother.
1071
We want to believe that we live in a world where our daughters can do anything and be anything.
It's not enough to say to our daughters: "You can be anything you want to be."
1072
The last film, "Fast & Furious 6," debuted to a franchise-best $117 million over the four-day Memorial Day weekend in 2012, including $97.4 million for the three days, on its way to grossing $788.7 million worldwide.
1073
In an exclusive interview Friday with CNN's Becky Anderson, Libyan army head Gen. Khalifa Haftar said Libyan authorities had not been consulted and, in any event, military action would not solve the problem.
1074
Set for release August 5, 2016, "Suicide Squad" is based on the DC Comics series and also stars Will Smith, Margot Robbie and Viola Davis.
1075
And the Jonathan government might have benefited from the Boko Haram terrorist emergency continuing in Muslim centers, for the Muslims were far more likely to vote for Buhari.
1076
He warned his fellow deputies he was going to use a Taser on the suspect, but instead, he fired a single gunshot -- and immediately apologized, Clark said, citing a recently released video.
1077
But scientists say evidence of water ice at the planet's poles and now more evidence toward the theory of widespread brines keeps them hoping they'll find evidence that life at least once existed there.
1078
But King said fans of Humphrey Bogart would have been pleased to know some of the items were also from their shared residence in Los Angeles.
1079
"Working on film sets was really important to Magnum, and all of the photographers working with Magnum in the '50s did films," says Jacob, now the McEvoy Family Curator for Photography at the Smithsonian American Art Museum.
1080
"Prince Harry has trained and served alongside Australian armed forces on operational tours to Afghanistan; he has met them during the Invictus Games; and even trekked to the South Pole with a couple of Australian soldiers," the spokesman said.
1081
Over the intervening years, Ohio had lost its way and was hurting.
Great leaders are not primarily guided by polls, political parties, focus groups, re-election, special interests or protecting the status quo.
1082
(CNN)On October 31, 2014, the Italian government announced the end of "Mare Nostrum" -- a naval mission that rescued would-be migrants in peril as they tried to cross the Mediterranean to seek security and a new life in Europe.
1083
In an interview with The Daily Beast, Barr said she suffers from macular degeneration and glaucoma and told the website, "My vision is closing in now."
But there are other weird things.
1084
, sources told the paper.
"It's going to take time to change some of this culture," Clancy said at a House Appropriations Committee hearing last month.
1085
The fund-raising records of the Clinton Foundation will also raise questions about conflict of interest, and ongoing stories about his personal life, as was the case when Monica Lewinsky returned to the media a few months ago, could re-emerge on the campaign trail.
1086
But neither is it ready to trust U.S. assurances that outside a nuclear agreement, the U.S. will indeed put forward a concerted strategy to contain Iranian influence throughout the region or to defend the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states against any Iranian threat.
1087
Now, after a half year of unrest, and with citizens on Tuesday electing two new black city council members, change is beginning to come to Ferguson.
1088
The police had no reasonable suspicion to stop or arrest him," the attorney said.
The sixth officer has invoked his right to refuse to answer questions, Batts said.
1089
(CNN)Facebook may soon need to add "Just got served divorce papers" to its list of relationship statuses now that a New York judge has said the social media site is an acceptable way for a Brooklyn woman to serve her husband with a summons for divorce.
1090
American Jennifer Stewart says she was devastated to learn that Etihad Airways lost her most important baggage following a recent trip from Abu Dhabi to New York City: her 2-year-old pet cat, Felix.
1091
Figueroa said the desert festivals have a deeper role in a region that struggles with social problems such as drug trafficking and poverty.
1092
Frank Jordan told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Thursday that he had worried about his son, who is an inexperienced sailor, but he held hope because his son had a good boat.
1093
Arango had earlier curled in a magnificent free kick for his team to bring them level after falling 2-0 down early on in the encounter.
1094
Tim Sherwood will welcome Gary Gardner back into his first team squad during pre-season to assess closely whether the 22-year-old can cut it for Aston Villa in the Premier League.
1095
For years medical experts have warned about the dangers of too much salt, but now new research is questioning conventional wisdom and warning instead of the dangers of too little salt .
1096
This line of 'smart dust' devices includes computers equipped with imagers (with motion detection), temperature sensors, and pressure sensors.
1097
Britons heading to Europe on holiday are facing the nightmare of arriving at their destination and not being able to hire a car, thanks to a controversial driving licence (file picture) shake-up .
1098
By watching the sun in different wavelengths - and therefore different temperatures - scientists can watch how material courses through the corona, which holds clues to what causes eruptions on the sun, what heats the sun's atmosphere up to 1,000 times hotter than its surface .
1099
'You look at Rory's year last year, it was all about how he played in the summer (winning the Open, Bridgestone Invitational and US PGA in the space of four weeks).
1100
The neighbour refused to comment.
The situation came to a head in 2008, when she claims a 65ft section of hedge fell, demolishing a neighbour’s garden shed.
1101
No place like home: John Warden, 52, has turned his $200 vehicle into his home after his apartment burned down years ago .
Eclectic:
Personal:
1102
Supporters are planning to boycott today’s game at home to Spurs in protest at what they see as a lack of investment and ambition from owner Mike Ashley.
1103
But Federer insists that arch-rival Nadal, who has won the title nine times and has only ever lost one match at Roland Garros, is still the man to beat.
1104
Underwear model and animal rights activist Sarah Stage shared this adorable picture of her newborn baby James Hunter on Instagram .
1105
Although McLean said before the auction of his song's lyrics that the pages would 'divulge everything there is to divulge' about this 'mystical trip into my past', they clearly don't.
1106
Now enraged residents in Farnham, Surrey, have branded waste collection squads as 'little Hitlers' for enforcing recycling rules to the letter.
1107
'Nobody aiming at no police,' Williams said.
Williams' attorney, Jerryl Christmas, has said Williams told him he never fired during the protest.
1108
The crew scoured a burning home in Boise, Idaho, searching for people shouting 'Help!' and 'Fire!'
Eventually, to their surprise, they found a pair of squawking birds.
1109
Manchester City won on their previous visit to Crystal Palace, as Yaya Toure celebrates scoring the second goal in a 2-0 win last April which helped fire them towards the Premier League title .
1110
Obama's jab at Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, departed from the White House's general strategy of staying out of the race to replace the sitting president, who is prohibited by the Constitution from seeking another term.
1111
While she hasn't finished the documentary yet, Milliken tells Daily Mail Online her research so far has indicated Yelp's advertising structure appears to punish businesses that choose not to advertise on the site - a claim that company has vigorously denied.
1112
Manchester City are keeping tabs on Juventus striker Alvaro Morata ahead of possible summer bid .
PSG also are one of the frontrunners to sign Juve midfielder Paul Pogba.
1113
Judge Leonard refused to accept his account and ordered him to repay £115,000 from the £310,857 he defrauded within six months or face two more years in jail.
1114
Gary Locke will be confirmed as Kilmarnock’s permanent manager on Friday - exactly eight weeks after he was asked to take charge until the end of the season.
1115
Short and sweet: Julia revealed that the ultra-short hairstyle she models in the newest season of HBO's political comedy Veep (pictured) was inspired by none other than presidential candidate Hillary Clinton .
1116
The 'daily use' version has a capacity of 7 kilowatt-hours, which is around a quarter of a home's daily usage.
Home battery packs could disrupt the utility market.
1117
Finn admits he's 'had my trials and tribulations over the last 12 months' but he's got his 'head straight'
'It was natural, and I bowled quickly, consistently.
1118
Liverpool lead the tributes to the 96 people who lost their lives at Hillsborough on the 26th anniversary .
Everton marked the anniversary with a post on Twitter .
1119
With Sterling currently on a £35,000 a week, it would cost the England international £1.7m to buy out the last year of his contract.
I am hearing .
1120
Photographs of this year's commercial hunt off the coast of Newfoundland were captured by animal rights charity Humane Society International (HSI) who say the baby animals 'are dying a violent death for fur products that nobody is buying'.
1121
Reading fans also invaded the pitch after the Royals beat Bradford 3-0 in a replay at the Madejski Stadium and one supporter entered the pitch during the contest.
1122
Filmed at the Orana Wildlife Park – the country’s only open-range zoo – the video shows the lions interacting with the visitors who stand inside a metal cage attached to a car.
1123
But goals from Sehrou Guirassy and Gnaly Cornet put the hosts in command and a late response from Fulham's Patrick Roberts wasn't enough to rescue Sean O'Driscoll's team.
1124
England's first-choice right-back at the World Cup is still a regular for Liverpool, but he looks almost certain to end his six-year spell at Anfield this summer.
1125
'What a wonderful tour,' the president told museum guide Natasha Clark.
Obama is in Jamaica to meet the 15-member Caribbean Community bloc to discuss energy and security .
1126
A 14-year-old boy from Blackburn, Lancashire was arrested after he allegedly communicated with Australian men over a plan to use knives and swords to hack officers to death in Melbourne on Anzac Day, which takes place this Saturday.
1127
Hydrogen peroxide gel is then squirted on to the tray via a syringe, and the tray fitted over the teeth and left for 45 minutes.
‘But I’ll carry on.
1128
Justin Rose is not resting on his laurels after his impressive Masters 2015 display and is continuing his training ahead of his next PGA tour event - on his state-of-the-art indoor golf simulator.
1129
Morrisons’ tax bill was £62m while its 83,000 low-paid workers received £190m in benefits and Sainsbury’s paid £180m in tax, almost exactly as much as its low-paid staff received from the public purse.
1130
The dramatic scenes occurred after Reclaim Australia, an anti-Islam group, organised protests at major cities across Australia, which were countered by anti-racism activists who held rallies in the same locations.
1131
Dante de Blasio, the son of New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio has been accepted into several top colleges including Ivy League universities Yale and Brown, sources close to Gracie Mansion said.
1132
'It just shows the extent of people's ignorance,' Mrs Jackson, from Las Vegas, said.
'It just shows the extent of people's ignorance,' Mrs Jackson said.
1133
Alexis Tsipras, Greece’s prime minister, will meet Vladimir Putin in Moscow today, amid reports that the Kremlin will offer controversial loans and discounts on supplies of natural gas in a bid to lessen its dependence on the West .
1134
As blood passes through the skin, the protoporphyrin absorbs the energy from sunlight and this sets off a chemical reaction that can slightly damage surrounding tissues.
1135
Jess said the tattoo had seemed like a good idea at the time but now she's been dumped by Jack, it's a permanent reminder of the love she's lost.
1136
'I hope we can make it and we are catching them up in the world rankings.
Wales midfielder Ramsey admits the banter with the likes of Danny Welbeck (above) is starting to fly .
1137
Bayern Munich moved a step closer to a third straight Bundesliga title thanks to a 3-0 win over Eintracht Frankfurt.
1138
West Ham wonderkid Reece Oxford pushed himself closer to a long-awaited first-team debut after scoring for the Under 21s against Manchester United.
1139
Alison Sharland, 47, agreed a £10.35million settlement in a deal that saw her give up her claim to an equal share in her husband's software company.
1140
HBO has launched its HBO NOW channel on the Apple TV set-top box, iPhone and iPad ahead of the series premiere of HBO hit show Game of Thrones on April 12.
1141
Kelly Parsons, 35, from London (pictured with daughters Emily, four, (left) and 11-year-old Charlotte (right) has donate 50 of her eggs to help childless couples conceive .
1142
The execution in Salah al-Din province took place as Iraqi forensic teams working in the nearby, newly liberated city of Tikrit started exhuming bodies from mass graves believed to contain the bodies of up to 1,700 soldiers brutally murdered by ISIS last year.
1143
Liverpool players Raheem Sterling and Jordon Ibe (left) have been pictured smoking a shisha pipe .
Trouble is, Sterling is not like any other 20-year-old.
1144
The men swoop on the lady and attempt to pull the crowbar out of her hands, sending her sprawling onto the ground.
this is what happens with my neighbour.
1145
FA chairman Greg Dyke revealed on Wednesday night that Harry Kane has informed England he wants to play for his country in the European U21 Championships.
1146
Mr Huxley hopes to install swings, bondage rooms, red room of pain and dungeons of delight (film still from Fifty Shades of Grey)
1147
Stoke chief executive Tony Scholes is hopeful they can keep hold of Asmir Begovic as the goalkeeper approaches the final year of his contract.
1148
The Nanokeratin System Hair Relaxing Treatment costs from £250 (including a cut and blowdry, or from £195 without) at Taylor Ferguson, Bath Street, Glasgow (0141 332 0397; taylorferguson.com).
1149
Sam Allardyce is already making plans for the summer and next season with West Ham, but admits he still does not know whether he will be manager.
1150
The unique dive takes 11 or 12 hours in total and once you reach the ocean floor powerful lights let you see the main features of ship.
or II
1151
Sixth-seeded Tomas Berdych overwhelmed Gael Monfis 6-1, 6-4 Saturday to reach the final of the Monte Carlo Masters for the first time.
1152
Enjoying territory and possession, Bill Meakes scored off a deft grubber kick from James Hook, with further penalties putting the hosts 13-6 up at half-time.
1153
Sapp was arrested the night after the Super Bowl in Phoenix, Arizona, on a prostitution charge after an alleged incident involving two women.
1154
I just want to see her home.
Amanda Holden said her sister Debbie was trapped on the mountain and may have been saved because she had altitude sickness .
1155
Cover star?
'Overcome something':
If he wins he would follow Iraq war veteran and amputee Noah Galloway, who clinched the top spot last year .
1156
Thankfully, Phillip Hobbs’s gelding was able to walk away from his fall, as was Walsh’s mount Ballycasey.
Ruby Walsh (right) warned riders that Balthazar King was receiving treatment .
1157
Tamara's father said he has suffered many sleepless nights and was 'internally wrecked'
Tamara's father said he suffered many sleepless nights and was 'internally wrecked'.
1158
Together again: Carrie Fisher, who is reprising her role as Princess Leia, and Mark Hamill, who is Luke Skywalker, were arm in arm on the stage in Anaheim on Thursday before the second trailer for Star Wars: Episode VII - The Force Awakens was rolled out .
1159
'Many of those glamorous looks can do more harm than good, leading to long term problems,' said LaQue Gushon-Harris, president of LQS and Associates.
1160
Cheryl Silvonek's body was found with stab wounds in a shallow grave about 50 miles northwest of Philadelphia, and her vehicle partially submerged in a pond a few miles from the family home.
1161
After the game, Parish posed for a picture at Selhurst Park with Palace manager Alan Pardew, England boss Roy Hodgson and Bill Wyman - one of the original members of The Rolling Stones and avid Palace fan.
1162
Andre Gignac says he made the 'stunning discovery' in a photograph released by Nasa and taken by the Mars rover Opportunity.
1163
In the hours after the first shot, which occurred shortly before noon on Friday, SWAT officers and police fired more than a dozen rounds of tear gas (pictured) at the bus in Turner Road - but to no avail .
1164
Four years after signing for Arsenal, Wellington Silva has finally received clearance to make his Gunners bow after being granted a Spanish passport.
1165
Real Madrid ace Gareth Bale treated himself to a Sunday evening BBQ after his earlier exploits had helped Los Blancos on their way to a sensational victory.
1166
The UFO map (pictured) was created by writer Levi Pearson, who used a UFO sighting dataset from the National UFO Reporting Centre and open source software from CartoDB.
1167
Raheem Sterling 'never once' told his manager Brendan Rodgers that he wants to leave Liverpool, and is focused on his football.
1168
Tiger Woods has revealed his wrist bone popped out after he swung and hit a tree root during the final round of the Masters on Sunday.
1169
Bulman was given a 12-month community order after he pleaded guilty to assault occasioning actual bodily harm at Bristol Crown Court.
1170
To date the video of his circus-like trick has been watched more than 80,000 times.
Forget sit and lie down: This skillful pooch has mastered the art of paw-stand walking .
1171
With the game finishing 1-1 after 90 minutes, the Australian inexplicably let a tame Alexis Sanchez shot slip through his grasp in the sixth minute of extra-time and could only watch on as it trickled over the line, allowing Arsenal to book a second successive final appearance.
1172
The Instagram account shows images of Albert in a various situations, frowning and glaring at the camera - his feline brow furrowed disapprovingly.
1173
On announcing Oyston’s denial, an FA statement read: ‘It is alleged that the misconduct constituted five breaches of FA rules, and that during the text message exchange, Mr Oyston used abusive and/or insulting words towards a supporter of Blackpool FC.
1174
In February, RAF planes intercepted two Russian bombers (file photo) which had flown into Irish territory and forced a passenger jet to divert its course .
Intercepted:
Since January 2014, there have been at least 17 shows of military strength by Russia near the UK.
Nov 2014:
Oct 2014:
1175
The fatally-wounded man, who is being held by his neck and back by the deputies (pictured), says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
He then adds: 'Oh, my god.
1176
Both Clare Montgomery QC and child abuse expert Eleanor Laws QC, leading counsel to the investigation, offered advice which could have supported a move to prosecute.
1177
'Obviously Arsenal play Liverpool as well, so if we can get the win against Villa that will be an even better result than Liverpool was for us.
1178
Gold Coast City Council will finally be able to shut down illegal party houses in suburban areas after the state government approved new planning powers, the Gold Coast Bulletin reports.
1179
The 39-year-old Ukrainian, speaking to reporters ahead of Saturday's fight against American Bryant Jennings at New York's Madison Square Garden, has dominated the heavyweight division for nearly a decade and shown no signs of slowing down.
1180
David Cameron has backed his Cabinet colleague William Hague to be the next James Bond - saying that it's time for Britain's most famous spy to be portrayed by a Yorkshireman.
1181
Amanda Berry (pictured left as a teen) along with Gina DeJesus (right) and Michelle Knight were held captive in Ariel Castro's Cleveland, Ohio home for 10 years .
1182
The principality club host Juventus at the Stade Louis II on Wednesday looking to overturn a 1-0 deficit from the quarter-final first leg and Jardim, who replaced Claudio Ranieri last June, is proud of what he has achieved in his 10 months at the helm.
1183
John Lord, 86, went missing from his home on April 6 less than a week after his beloved wife June, 81, pictured together on their wedding anniversary, died from a 'catastrophic bleed' to the brain .
1184
Lily then plays on her mother's fears by pretending that the intruder now has possession of the phone simply replying: 'She knows that now.'
1185
Messi and Mascherano stretch off during Thursday's training session, with Celta Vigo ahead on Sunday .
Barca always has to be the team that takes the initiative.'
1186
The author of a play which sees impressionist Alistair McGowan portray Jimmy Savile has said the public is ready for it to be shown .
Depraved:
1187
Arsenal Fan TV favourite Claude Callegari may well have been speaking for a number of Gunners fans when demanding for the Cesc Fabregas flag to be taken down from the side of the Emirates Stadium.
1188
The plot thickens as the way it was built, along with the construction materials use, hint at Chinese architectural tradition .
Isolated ruins!
1189
Helen Chan, the mother of Andrew Chan (left) and Julian McMahon the lawyer for Bali Nine pair Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran walk as they prepare to head to Nusakambangan Island prison .
1190
They're supposed to be the ones who take the rubbish away.
'For at least a year now we have had an issue with rubbish bags being dumped in the alleyway,' said Mr Liaqat.
1191
Muto says he is still considering a move to Chelsea as he wants to join a club where he will 'play and develop' Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho had admitted that he is aware of the Japan international .
1192
The pet has attacked several terrified postmen but Miss Sandiford says Royal Mail are victimising Winston and claims her family are being 'taunted all the time' by people in the area.
1193
The three car pileup happened at on the Brisbane Valley Highway, near Fernvale .
Police said the highway would be closed for a few hours with diversions in place south of Fernvale.
1194
Lake Teller in Boulder has been invaded by 3,000 to 4,000 goldfish, which wildlife officials say started as someone dumping 'four or five' of their pets in the water two or three years ago .
1195
But while Rose finished off with a staggering fifth birdie in his last six holes, Spieth was running up his first double bogey of the tournament at the 17th.
1196
Inter Milan target Yaya Toure has admitted that he is open to 'new challenges' and will not remain at Manchester City just to pick up his £220,000-a-week wages.
1197
By the time Antoine Griezmann struck the hosts' second goal, lifting the ball over the hapless Geronimo Rulli after the keeper had parried Koke's shot straight to the Frenchman, Atletico could have been four up, and the game was all but over.
1198
Since Monday, over-55s have been able to withdraw all or part of their pension pots instead of being forced to buy a regular pension income for life, known as an annuity.
1199
Blackpool are in talks to sign Austria defender Thomas Piermayr (left), pictured playing for Colorado Rapids .
1200
The Argentine scored his 33rd league goal of the season against Almeria and with Marc Bartra heading in either side of two Luis Suarez goals - the first of which was almost a match for Messi's strike - Barcelona ran out comfortable 4-0 winners.
1201
The latest video mirrored a film released in February showing militants beheading 21 captured Egyptian Christians on a Libyan beach (pictured above), which immediately drew Egyptian airstrikes on the group's suspected positions in Libya .
1202
Gary Anderson 6-6 Raymond van Barneveld .
Raymond van Barneveld survived elimination on 'Judgement Night' with a 6-6 draw against Gary Anderson .
1203
Kane said: 'You could say it has been the best week of my life - to score, to make my first start and score for England, and to be captain today.
1204
Although Hughes was promptly arrested for the stunt and charged Thursday with violating restricted airspace and operating an unregistered aircraft, Hughes' wife Alena says she is proud of her husband.
1205
Prime Minister David Cameron took advice from martial arts pupils in Warrington about the best way to deal with the Ukip leader when they go up against each other in the two-hour showdown .
1206
It’s easy to defend, if we have to defend then we will defend.
The pair rarely miss the chance to damn with faint praise or hurl a snide remark across the capital .
1207
Agency founder Kira-Lea Dargin hopes 10 of her girls will join Samantha Harris at next year's fashion week .
'We focused on high fashion calibre models,' she said.
1208
Mirko ‘Cro Crop’ Filipovic is desperate to scratch his eight-year itch when he takes on Gabriel Gonzaga in Poland on Saturday.
1209
Laura Wells (left) has found international success as a size 14 model, including appearing in Cosmopolitan and Australian Women's Weekly magazines .
1210
Speaking to FEMAIL about her new designs, Amy said: 'I love pastels and florals - they were big at Coachella recently and I’ve done my take on them.
1211
Wolfsburg dominated but needed a second-half penalty from defender Ricardo Rodriguez to edge past fellow Bundesliga club Freiburg 1-0 and advance to the German Cup semi-finals on Tuesday.
1212
Before finding out the DNA results, Phil said it would be the proudest day of his life if Sarah was his daughter, while she said she would be 'over the moon'
1213
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio waves as he stands with members of the families of New York City Police Detectives Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos before they threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the Mets home opener baseball game against the Philadelphia Phillies in New York .
1214
Dietrich Evans has been arrested on suspicion of shooting Kay Hafford in the head in a road rage attack .
Ms Hafford, nee Kelley, works as a singer at a Houston-area church.
1215
No-one was believed to have been injured in the fire, with guests and staff quickly evacuated to the nearby Oxford Playhouse theatre.
1216
1) Athens, Greece . 2) Istanbul, Turkey . 3) Toronto, Canada . 4) Warsaw, Poland . 5) Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam . 6) Dublin, Ireland . 7) Barcelona, Spain . 8) Colombo, Sri Lanka . 9) Santiago, Chile . 10) Vienna, Austria .
1217
Many are now opting for the cuts simply to get more likes and shares on social media sites.
 Many are now opting for the cuts simply to get more likes and shares on social media sites .
1218
John Goodwin, 75, shot himself outside of Rockingham County Superior Courthouse on Friday morning while jurors were deliberating claims that Goodwin had sexually assaulted an underage student .
1219
'Take Germany's kit for example, world champions.
Nike has been forced to defend its colour decision , saying 'Not every team pays homage to the flag'
1220
Forest boss Dougie Freedman says the difference between the two sides was simple composure in front of goal.
Afobe made the difference, because he took his goal superbly.
1221
Pettingill is the son of Trevor Pettingill, who was acquitted of shooting two police constables in Melbourne's infamous 1988 Walsh Street murders.
1222
Mr O'Melia, who had worked as a deputy in the Sheriff's Office for just nine months, was flagged down for help by Braddock's sister Kelly Boan, 31, near New York Avenue near DeLand at about 4pm on Sunday afternoon.
1223
But, after winning at Racing Metro in the quarter final while watching Premiership rivals Northampton capitulate to Clermont two weeks ago, McCall’s men still have every chance of delivering a trophy this season.
1224
He added, 'There was such an amazing atmosphere out there.'
Button praised the 'amazing atmosphere' and collective spirit of the runners at the event .
1225
Helping hand: The taxpayer-funded Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, currently provides cash payments of up to $497 per month for a family of four .
1226
I don't think it is.
Mr Crowther said: 'We think it is under-reported and we think that might be because people are intimidated or frightened.'
1227
Although Wenger would have to deviate from his usually cautious financial approach to win the race to sign Sterling while Rodgers would be hard pushed to sell Walcott as a worthy replacement for Sterling.
1228
Horrific: Dug the pug's face swelled to twice its size after he was bitten in the face by a rattlesnake .
'I was so scared.'
Relieved:
Forlorn:
1229
Liverpool boss Brendan Rodgers believes a 'very poor decision' by Michael Oliver's assistant referee was one of the reason's Liverpool were knocked out of the FA Cup semi-final by Aston Villa on Sunday night.
1230
In the semi-rural Bonstetten area, the highly-rated Hotel Oktogon is also about 20 minutes away from the Zurich city centre by car, or a quick 15 minute train ride into Zurich's main station.
1231
The creature survived the incident by scampering away, but was singed by the flame .
Animal rights activists have claimed that the pair's punishment was too lenient for their crime .
1232
A spokesperson for the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) told MailOnline Travel: 'Travellers in Nepal are advised to monitor local news and media reports and to follow any advice and instructions issued by the authorities and by the Foreign Office.
1233
This inspired the 52-year-old French insurance saleswoman to think of a more permanent way to capture a person's individual scent in a bid to help others in mourning.
1234
Abdulla Dahab, 21, from London was also located for the first time today, allaying the fears of his family who had not heard from him as he set off on a mountain climb at the time the earthquake hit.
1235
Charli, an eight-year-old from Australia (pictured), makes an estimated $127,000 (AUD $162,472) per month from the ad revenue generated from her popular YouTube channel CharlisCraftyKitchen .
1236
A man, in his 60s, has died after the ride-on lawnmower he was using to cut the grass at a farmhouse property in Wattisham, Suffolk, overturned into a pond.
1237
March 1 Arsenal 2-0 Everton (1 Giroud goal) March 4 QPR 1-2 Arsenal (1) March 14 Arsenal 3-0 West Ham (1)
'That's what we've done and we've come back really strongly.
1238
Andreas Lubitz appears to have researched suicide methods, cockpit door security and medical treatment before crashing the Germanwings plane into the French Alps, killing all 150 people on board .
1239
The Prime Minister visited a primary school near Bolton to unveil the party's latest proposal to improve education standards, after announcing that under a future Tory government children who achieve poor SATs results will be forced to resit them in secondary school.
1240
The Hop Theory 'beer-bag' contains a blend of hops, fruit peels and natural spices, and promises to turn light beer into craft after just two minutes of steeping.
1241
Pochettino, whose side play his former club Southampton at 12.45 at St Mary's on Saturday, said: 'Maybe this is a coincidence.
1242
Gabriel Ng spent countless hours filming Thailand’s picturesque coastline, religious sites and scenes of everyday life using a camera attached to a remote control drone.
1243
Leroy Fer is set to be rushed back from a knee injury to give Queens Park Rangers a boost in the relegation fight.
'He is in contention,' said Ramsey.
1244
Those who attended the show also seen to match the iconic look of the label, with model Jecinta Campbell wearing burgundy two-piece wrap top and skirt with leather laced heels and Rebecca Judd wearing a black studded dress with suede laced heels.
1245
It has a 'lightweight chassis' and is 3.2ft (1 metre) tall.
A child, up to a height of 3.2ft (1 metres), is then strapped into the seat in an almost vertical position.
1246
'If it goes away I'll just go back to downloading,' another said.
Foxtel is charging Australians around $45 a month to access TV favourites such as Games of Thrones .
1247
Tony Fernandes spoke of his despair after his Queens Park Rangers team twice threw away a lead against Aston Villa, with the Rangers chairman watching the scenes at Villa Park from afar on his iPhone.
1248
A Turkish court has blocked access to Twitter and YouTube after they refused a request to remove pictures of prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz held during an armed siege last week .
1249
The property has stunning views of Smugglers Cove, and the summer and winter cottages are linked via a lift (pictured: summer cottage)
1250
Puppy-dog eyes: 'We have seen the number of animals rescued go up every year since we started in 2008,' said Kate Quinn, executive director of Pilots N Paws .
1251
World Health Organisation
The latest World Health Organisation figures show that of the 198million cases in 2013, 584,000 people died.
1252
The Hull midfielder was shown a straight red for the hefty challenge that left Naughton in hospital at the weekend, though neither Garry Monk nor Steve Bruce condemned Meyler at the time.
1253
Twice French Open champion Serena Williams said her struggle to beat Sara Errani in the Fed Cup on Sunday had been a real 'eye-opener' as the claycourt season gets into full swing.
1254
The card commonly carried a brief message and a simple illustration .
Many of the cards have all the flowery but insincere charm of a cheesy modern-day pick-up line .
1255
Mogi Mirim announced on Tuesday that Edson Cholbi do Nascimento, known as Edinho, will be the team's coach in the second division of the Brazilian league this year.
1256
The nine-and-a-half minute broadcast, which begins and ends with traditional sounding Arabic music, is hosted by a man with an American accent, who takes the listener through the main events of the day.
1257
Now Professor Guiltinan and his team have discovered that a single gene - TcSAD1 – in the SAD family, is responsible for the melting point of cocoa butter.
1258
The four fans labelled themselves the 'C-Team' while wearing Jose Mourinho, Diego Costa, Didier Drogba and Cesc Fabregas masks to hide their identity before parking up outside Arsenal's north London home.
1259
The toxic pesticide that poisoned a U.S. family on vacation in the Virgin Islands has also been improperly used in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Thursday after a federal investigation.
1260
Mr Clegg accused Labour's Simon Danczuk (pictured) of choosing 'to airbrush out the fact that actually Cyril Smith was a Labour politician when he was alleged to have started abusing young children'.
1261
Attorneys for Brown's mother, Lesley McSpadden, and his father, Michael Brown Sr., announced at a press conference in early March that a wrongful death lawsuit would be filed 'soon.'
1262
Harry Kane has hailed his trailblazing few days as the ‘best week of my life’ after becoming the Premier League’s youngest captain this season.
1263
West Brom 8/11 .
Managers: Tony Pulis (West Brom), Chris Ramsey (QPR) Head-to-head league record: West Brom wins 16, draws 9, QPR wins 12 .
1264
The Brazilian has been at Anfield for eight years and holds the unwanted record of playing more games for Liverpool without winning a major trophy than anyone else in 50 years.
1265
The complaint concerns a letter to the Macpherson Inquiry in 1998, in which Lord Stevens stated that no officer or former officer involved in giving evidence was under investigation for corruption.
1266
Henley is right on song .
After his second found a greenside bunker the 65-year-old hit a fine chip, which took one bounce before landing in the hole.
1267
Scientists from the University of Wollongong are designing ultra-durable condoms they claim could feel even better than nothing at all.
1268
Initially, Pacquiao's promoter Bob Arum said tickets would be on sale in the first week of April but that less than 1,000 - priced between $1,500 and $7,500 - were expected to be made available to the public.
1269
Lewis Hamilton was fastest in first practice for this weekend's Chinese Grand Prix .
Hamilton was over half-a-second clear of Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg in opening practice .
1270
The DEA, who just years earlier were reaching out to phone companies in search of individual records, would now receive phone company records on a daily basis thanks to a request from the Justice Department.
1271
After the haircut the student used permanent markers to draw the different brain regions on Ms Kanwisher's bare scalp.
1272
Always the bride: Liana Barrientos, 39, of the Bronx, pleaded not guilty on Friday to two felony charges of filing a false instrument, involving marriage licences .
1273
The family's lawsuit is seeking $75,000 in compensation, as well as unspecified punitive damages, and calls for a court order prohibiting the use of police techniques 'that demean, disregard, or underserve its African-American population'
1274
But it was Boro who looked like the only side capable of scoring and the third nearly came in the 77th minute when Tomlin clipped an exquisite ball to the back post but Bamford's first-time half-volley was easily saved by Martinez at his near post.
1275
Add a final layer of the chocolate mix, filling to the top of the cups, then sprinkle with Himalayan pink salt & freeze until solid for the salted golden berry crush .
1276
When they were shown squares with one green a different shade, they  picked it out immediately (second top left)
The colours seen are your brain’s “best guess.”’
1277
A 46-year-old man was sentenced to life in prison on Monday after shooting dead a father and son because they were related to a driver who killed his nine-year-old sister in a crash 45 years ago.
1278
Mother-of-two Cheryl Howe, 32, from Morecambe, was diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) at the age of 12, and suffers from excessive hair growth on her face, breasts, stomach and legs.
1279
#sydney #takemehome,' Brendan Duong posted on Instagram after spotting two colourful brollies poking out the top of a Sydney bin .
‘This is #sydney.
1280
Five-month-old Sonit Awal was pulled from the ruins of his family home after his heart-broken mother was forced to listen to his cries for 22 anguished hours.
1281
The prosecution claim that Mrs Walters ‘couldn’t cope with her husband’s demands’ in bed, and that Walters purposely crashed to show his wife ‘who was in charge’.
1282
The 2012 Super League Man of Steel is to cut short his stay in the NRL with New Zealand Warriors and rejoin his home-town club on a four-year contract from 2016.
1283
The research focused on POMC neurons, which are a structure called the hypothalamus, that send and receive signals to regulate appetite.
1284
Andre Cole, 52, became the third convicted killer put to death this year in Missouri.
Andre Cole, 52, became the third convicted killer put to death this year in Missouri .
1285
And Hitzfield believes Favre, whose Monchengladbach side currently sit fourth in the Bundesliga standings as they edge closer towards Champions League football next season, is the man to replace Guardiola should he leave Bayern.
1286
Tebow, 27, hasn't played a snap in the NFL in over two years since being cut by the New England Patriots before the 2013 season.
Philadelphia .
1287
Niki Lauda is fully expecting Nico Rosberg to turn 'nasty' at some stage after accusing the German and team-mate Lewis Hamilton of being 'egocentric b*******'.
1288
Retirement beckons for McCoy, champion jockey every year since he first won the title in 1997, and he will stop riding immediately if his mount Shutthefrontdoor wins the £1million Crabbie’s Grand National on Saturday.
1289
The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are so desperate to rid themselves of Major League Baseball star Josh Hamilton that they might decide to pay almost $70million for him to play for another team.
1290
Carl Frampton has branded Eddie Hearn's £1.5million offer to fight Scott Quigg as little more than a 'publicity stunt'.
1291
Romantic Ben Parsons, 34, of Brighton, East Sussex, stunned girlfriend Anna Jefferson, 36, by getting down on one knee after running 24 and a half miles.
1292
The Duchess of Cambridge is believed to be five days overdue, and many fans and media have camped outside the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, where she will give birth.
1293
Michael Slager, the North Charleston cop charged with murder, is pictured above firing a Taser at a black man being held down by two fellow officers.
1294
He now hopes to cycle the entire Tour de France .
Mr Sim attempted the L'Etape du Tour on the Raleigh Chopper last year and finished in the top 20 per cent .
1295
Despite Arsenal winning their eighth Premier League game in a row on Saturday, the club's chief executive Ivan Gazidis says he is 'not happy' that the club are not going to win the title.
1296
‘I’m over the moon that it’s all done just so I can concentrate on the future and what needs to be done now, said Henderson, who arrived from Sunderland in a £16million deal in June 2011, when Kenny Dalglish was manager.
1297
Police have confirmed Mr Arwani visited the area where he was found dead two days before being fatally shot in his black car (above)
1298
Ian Poulter was dressed all in purple on Sunday for his final round at Augusta .
England’s Danny Willett hit three rounds of 71 but his third of 76 proved his undoing.
1299
Unexpected: Colagrossi (center) was returning from covering a house fire in Queens, New York on March 19 when the married mother-of-two collapsed from a brain aneurysm and never regained consciousness .
1300
Redditor Roxambops, aka Roxy de la Rosa posted the pictures of dozing Alex Elenes on the social networking site this week with the caption: ‘Went to the Amazon, cousin slept everywhere.’
1301
The wide-leg trouser made an appearance on several catwalks including on the runway of Gucci SS15 who showcased a denim take on the trend, for a high street take try the Topshop Miller jean (right) Celine showcased colourful billowing bottoms on their SS15 runway .
1302
During the Chelsea celebrations at Loftus Road, the Blues were targeted by objects thrown from the crowd .
They have also appealed to witnesses to come forward.
1303
United head to Chelsea on Saturday in top form, having won six successive matches.
Van Gaal's United head to Chelsea on Saturday in top form, having won six successive matches .
1304
Researchers in Massachusetts believe a person's keystrokes may reveal a huge amount of information about their motor skills.
1305
Hillary Clinton imposed a blanket of secrecy on her movements at the height of the Monica Lewinsky scandal and told aides they would be fired if she was seen, it is claimed.
1306
Mignolet has been in impressive form since his return to the Liverpool side and has kept six consecutive Premier League clean sheets away from home.
1307
Scientists believe the bizarre network of ridges formed in Mars' wet past billions of years ago above the now eroded, much softer bedrock.
1308
The Post Office failed to properly investigate why money had gone missing from branches before launching court proceedings against subpostmasters, a report has revealed (file picture)
1309
Kiwi jihadi Mark John Taylor, who claims to be fighting with Islamic State in Syria, posted a video on YouTube in an attempt to incite violent acts in Australia and New Zealand during services commemorating Anzac Day's centenary.
1310
An FBI agent's sniper rifle was  ripped out of his car's window and stolen from a Salt Lake City hotel parking lot just days before President Obama visited Utah earlier this month.
1311
John Carver has challenged his Newcastle players to relieve the pressure on their shoulders by adding another dent to Liverpool's Champions League hopes.
1312
The Prime Minister, who travelled to Glasgow this morning to unveil the Tory Party's Scottish manifesto, accused the SNP and Labour of posing a 'clear and present danger' to Britain.
1313
Scroll down for video .
A connected 'pocket processor' converts that recording into an infrared image, which the goggles will then beam into the eye.
1314
The Philippines has protested China's reclamation of land in the disputed reef in the South China Sea that can be used to build an airstrip or an offshore military base in the increasingly volatile region .
1315
Nigel Farage, speaking tonight on a special Question Time style programme broadcast on the BBC, insisted he would not give up trying to pull Britain out of the European Union even if voters rejected leaving in a referendum .
1316
'The distance is five points.
Southampton vs Tottenham - April 25 .
'Both games we won but in both it was difficult because we know the qualities of them.
1317
Angela Linton wrote the vile message, directed at gay teacher Thomas O'Brien, after a row about a school outing, Birmingham Magistrates' Court heard.
1318
The 17-year-old was one of the participants in the NRHA European Futurity Horse Show in the Bavarian town of Kreuth and looked every inch the professional rider throughout the tournament.
1319
Mr Ajayi also recommends drinking water with lemon juice in it daily, as the citrate (a form of acetic acid) in lemons is a natural stone inhibitor that can prevent calcium from binding with other substances, such as oxalates, that lead to stones.
1320
Ashton and Lucy's typical workout  will incorporate a big lift such as a squat or a deadlift, both of which are great for toning legs and glutes.
1321
During her senior year of high school, Hill (left and right) was diagnosed with DIPG (Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma), a rare form of brain cancer with a survival rate of less than 10 percent .
1322
Police say the man,  a garbage truck driver, was collecting bins in Footscray early on Saturday morning when the truck rolled forward, pinning him between the vehicle and a pole.
1323
Jay Kantaria, 38, from Harrow, north-west London, had been looking forward to his daughter’s birthday party when he leapt onto the tracks at his local station of Sudbury Hill.
1324
Rand Paul, pictured on Saturday, a Republican 2016 presidential contender, refused to comment after his son  crashed into a parked car on Sunday in Lexington, Kentucky while under the influence of alcohol .
1325
April 2015 - Royal Navy's HMS Argyll monitors Russian Udaloy class destroyer Severomorsk along with a tanker and a support ship as they move through the English Channel.
1326
Passengers were still on board as firefighters walked through the cabin with a thermal imaging camera to locate a potential heat source.
1327
It is believed Stickler intentionally crashed his Cessna plane into a field in California on Saturday, after texting family and friends that he was 'distraught' and planned on taking his own life .
1328
When Ukip leader Nigel Farage interjected and said they were prejudiced, ‘even by the Left-wing standards of the BBC’, the audience only booed him further.
1329
Club owner Nasser Al-Khelaifi ruled out his sale last week, claiming he is loved at the Parc des Princes.
Paris loves him and he loves Paris.'
1330
A Russian aerospace commander has sensationally claimed that some spy satellites are masquerading as space junk in Earth orbit.
1331
Fit for fashion: Lindy Klim (left), Yogi and Instagram star Sjana Earp (centre left) and former Commonwealth Games pole vaulter Amanda Bisk (centre right), and Australian Ballet star Juliette Burnett (right) starred at the We Are Handsome Activewear show .
1332
'The last thing I wanted was to look like a man in a dress.
I wanted to be a beautiful woman,' Rajee (above) said of her decision to get the injections.
1333
Slipper Island, a 2.7 km long, 1.8 km wide landmass located 4 km off the coast of the New Zealand's North Island, has been purchased for AUD $6.75 million .
1334
Ivan Balashov took this selfie on one phone before stealing one he preferred - only to be caught when police identified him from the picture .
1335
Police in Texas are investigating claims of excessive force after an officer was caught on camera throwing an intoxicated woman to the ground of a parking lot during an arrest.
1336
A Manchester canal was turned into a giant bubble bath after fire crews tackling a nearby chemical plant blaze saw their water mix with a detergent creating a six foot wall of foam.
1337
Wasps will appeal against the three-week ban issued to Nathan Hughes, but their protest will not enable the back row to play in Sunday's Champions Cup quarter-final against Toulon.
1338
The pictures were taken by the cat's owner Jason Bryant who confirmed the inevitable outcome of the encounter.
Cartoon characters:
Let's play:
1339
6.5 .
Quick, strong and often influential. 7 .
Kasey Palmer (Abraham, 67, 6): On for Abraham and showed explosive pace straight away but was let down by a hurried attempt at a finish which flew over the bar.
1340
The United boss then reads out the names of Mats Hummels, Nathaniel Clyne, Paul Pogba, Gareth Bale, Memphis Depay and Jackson Martinez, before thanking the supporter for his advice.
1341
Mrs Goetzinger said that she and her husband were made to feel like criminals for choosing a home birth .
It was tragic and devastating but it just happened.'
1342
The comical clip shows the youngster lurching back and forth with the device almost touching the floor.
Adding to the performance, he trills his lips at the same time.
1343
He explained he could put a special platinum chain into my eyelid which would weigh it down and help it close by itself - I'd be able to open the eye easily because the muscle controlling this wasn't affected.
1344
Didier Drogba replaced Oscar at the break, with Sky Sports revealing that Jose Mourinho had told them the decision was taken because of concussion concerns over the latter.
1345
Mrs Wood's post was shared by thousands of people, prompting Mrs Boyd to write her a message.
Her husband has also received job offers following the publicity .
1346
After taking the big race on the opening day of the Grand National festival, AP McCoy repeated the trick on Don Cossack to the delight of a huge Ladies’ day crowd.
1347
The 2.36 minute long clip also shows a white man accidentally shooting an aboriginal man with a dart while hunting and the white Australians who have come to work at the radio station in Alice Springs are labelled 'Missionaries, Mercenaries and Misfits'.
1348
Former Adelaide doctor Tareq Kamleh, who fled to join the Islamic State, is still allowed to practice medicine in Australia despite appearing in a propaganda video encouraging foreign medics to join the terrorist cult .
1349
There are three main types of over-the-counter cough remedies, those that contain suppressants to alleviate symptoms of a dry, tickly cough, syrups that reduce the urge to cough by coating the throat, and products that help to thin sticky mucus, making coughing easier.
1350
Panama police say Brimager left Panama for Costa Rica and the United States about 10 days after last being seen with Baldelli.
1351
Churchill’s version was attached by frogmen who used the most powerful magnet in the world at the time to attach around 4.5lbs (two kilograms) of explosive to an enemy ship, capable of punching a large hole in the hull.
1352
'He played as good as anyone I've seen first time here.'
Defending champion Mark Selby closed the session at 4-4 with Anthony McGill in their second round match .
1353
The 18-year-old Long Islander was accepted by 14 colleges - including all Ivy League schools - and now hopes to study neuroscience to cure Alzheimer's, the disease his grandmother suffers from.
1354
The youngster's recent performance at a shopping mall in his home of Johannesburg, South Africa, gathered a large crowd from fans as he bopped his head to the beat, with large headphones slung around his neck .
1355
'Fighting at home like Quillin is on Saturday, brings a different kind of pressure to the table, it's the pressure of expectations and people you know coming to the fights.
1356
He signed off his email with: 'That's why I'll be voting Ukip'.
Pensioner Alan Roberts wrote to Bournemouth Borough Council complaining about a lack of action over fly-tipping (stock image above).
1357
Hydrogen is  pumped into a reactor with carbon dioxide at high pressure and high temperatures and causes them to react to produce liquid hydrocarbons, known as 'blue crude'.
1358
Owner Wendy Stokes, 74, had given up hope of ever seeing Toby again after he escaped from her garden 11 months ago.
Six months ago, he was re
1359
Calcium formations on ‘Altamura Man’ - a skeleton found in a cave in 1993 - suggest he was 128,000 to 187,000 years old.
1360
Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic could be targeted by Bayern Munich in the January transfer window .
1361
Biologists with the Oregon Coast Aquarium and Oregon State University's Hatfield Marine Science Center inspected the boat remains and found 'several live specimens of a variety of yellowtail jack fish found in the coastal waters of Japan.'
Wreckage: A floating island of debris the size of Texas floated toward California coast in 2013 after washing into the Pacific in Japan's horrific 2011 tsunami .
1362
According to the New York Daily News, the NYPD has seen the video and said in a statement; 'We are aware of the incident and video and it is under review with the department’s Internal Affairs Bureau.'
1363
Ten years ago, bartender Liz Clark did just that when she swapped cleaning glasses for sailing around the world.
Liz says: 'He never wanted to be on the boat.
1364
They think they can erase this history.
 The shocking incident comes just two weeks after students allegedly chanted a racist song at a black female student .
1365
Wallenda was the oldest daughter of high wire walker Karl Wallenda and grandmother of daredevil performer Nik Wallenda.
She will be missed everyday.
1366
The Fire Brigades Union say the practice is irresponsible and dangerous but is becoming increasingly common because the ambulance service is so overstretched.
1367
But a new ComRes poll for ITV News reveals 54 per cent want her kept out of the next UK government, and 59 per cent want the SNP as a whole to play no part in running the country.
1368
Four out of ten people think Prince Charles should give up his right to be king so the crown passes straight to William (pictured with his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge)
1369
MARTIN KEOWN:
KEOWN:
KEOWN:
WELBECK: Leading up to the game I had no plans whatsoever.
WELBECK: I didn’t see the comments.
WELBECK: It would mean a lot.
1370
Mr Johnson's verbal mauling of the Labour leader comes after the Tories were accused of 'descending into the gutter' for claiming that Mr Miliband may 'stab the country in the back' by doing a deal with the SNP to get into power.
1371
Jack Wilshere became embroiled in his third smoking controversy in 15 months after a picture emerged of the Arsenal midfielder holding a shisha pipe at a nightclub in February.
1372
The condition can also cause miscarriage .
Pregnant women with the condition are six times more likely to miscarry and twice as likely to give birth prematurely.
1373
Mr Sheldon responded by saying: 'Aldi... believes the right of workers to challenge bad workplace agreements is "not acceptable in a modern, flexible economy"'
1374
Professor John Warren discovered avocado trees switch from male to female in a matter of hours.
Professor Warren has written about the avocado in his book called the Nature of Crops.
1375
People who have never been divorced can expect a retirement income 13 per cent higher than a colleague who has been through a divorce.
1376
The celebrity chef, who lives in Los Angeles with his actress wife Lindsay Price and their two boys, Hudson aged three and seven-month-old Emerson, is not about to let junk food pass their mouths.
1377
A Chinese team took a kite measuring an astonishing 6,000 metres (3.7 miles) to a kite flying festival - aiming to break the world record by a massive 1,000 metres.
1378
Tottenham are ready to grant Emmanuel Adebayor a free transfer, in an attempt to finally get the striker off their wage bill.
1379
The Barcelona forward scored a brace in his side's 3-1 win over PSG in the Champions League quarter final to put the Spanish side firmly in control in the tie.
1380
Bones were discovered there in ossuaries, or chalk boxes, including one that bears the inscription, ‘Jesus, son of Joseph' with others bearing the names of Maria, Joseph, Mary, Yose, Matthew and most controversially, ‘Judah, son of Jesus’.
1381
Labour health spokesman Andy Burnham has also vowed that a Labour government would investigate the Mail’s evidence.
1382
Manchester United scouts checked on Porto striker Jackson Martinez last week.
Manchester United scouts checked on £30million-rated Porto striker Jackson Martinez last week .
1383
Charlie Chaplin, left, married second wife Lita Grey, right, who was nearly 20 years his jounior, in 1924 and the union lasted for just three years .
1384
Isis leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has been seriously injured in an air strike and is no longer in control of the terrorist group, according to an Iraqi source.
1385
Jose Mourinho has lauded Chelsea's consistency, with a hint of caution, as his side bid to wrap up a wire-to-wire Premier League victory.
Everybody loses matches, everybody loses points.'
1386
Specifics: Applicants must meet a strict criteria including measuring 5ft 6in, have a 25½in waist, a high hip of 35, low hip of 36½ and be prepared to cut their hair into a messy bob, so they look like Sienna Miller .
1387
Abdulhamid was jailed for six years after admitting three counts of conspiracy to defraud, but this year he was ordered to repay just £686 out of the £74,000 profit he made from the scam.
1388
Luis Suarez's wife Sofia has revealed that the Barcelona star told her he didn't bite Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini during the World Cup in Brazil - before admitting the truth 10 days later.
1389
A donation page, set up by close friend and former Metropolitan Police colleague Alison Cat, has collected more than £8,000 so far .
1390
Alan Greaves, pictured, claimed 'the Illuminati framed him by downloading child abuse images on his computer .
He is also barred from working with children.
1391
Conor McGregor insists featherweight champion Jose Aldo doesn't want the title as much as he does.
NOW WATCH SPORTSMAIL'S FULL INTERVIEW WITH McGREGOR .
1392
Instead, they left Phillip, his wife Gaby and their two young children, Orion and Aurielle, in an unsafe building with no roof while they ran off with £17,000 of their money.
1393
Chelsea will  announce the £4.5million signing of Brazilian wonderkid Nathan on Wednesday in a move that will come as a significant blow to Manchester City.
1394
And Ukrainian forward Yarmolenko is emerging as a realistic target for the White Hart Lane club.
Tottenham are also keen on Everton winger Kevin Mirallas.
1395
Unbeaten Championship leaders Leigh delivered a stunning knockout blow as Super League club Salford crashed out of the Ladbrokes Challenge Cup.
1396
The University of Michigan yanked an upcoming screening of the Oscar-nominated drama American Sniper over student complaints but quickly did an about-face after news of the cancellation sparked a firestorm on campus.
1397
Simon Wood, 38, right, battled it out against Emma Spitzer, left, and Tony Rodd, centre, as they were challenged to cook judges John Torode and Gregg Wallace a three-course meal in three hours .
1398
After Patrick Bamford, Joe Garner and Danny Mayor were crowned their division's player of the year on Sunday, the Football League has revealed the players who were nipping at their heels for the honour.
1399
Manchester United winger Ashley Young was in attendance as Crawley Town took on Oldham Athletic in League One on Monday, watching his brother in action for the home side.
1400
Ms Peckham is intensely protective of her children – the children that she claims her partner never sees .
'All I care about is my children,' Ms Peckham said.
1401
Tories said Miss Thornberry, who lost her frontbench job after tweeting a sneering picture of a house covered in England flags and with a white van outside, opposed right to buy but not ‘right to buy to let’.
1402
The creature survived the incident by scampering away, but was singed by the flame.
The men can be heard uncontrollably laughing after igniting the native Australian creature .
1403
Its wings contain UV-C lamps, which are the same type used for disinfection in places like hospitals and water treatment plants.
1404
The amazing images reveal a kaleidoscope of colours in icy caves - lit up by flares and fire-breathing (Denis Budkov pictured) 'It was pretty cold and wet inside and the water was flowing down from the roof and walls,' he said.
1405
He pleaded guilty to stealing a watch and a pair of cuff links worth £50 from H Samuel in the city centre at Plymouth Magistrates Court in his most recent offence and jailed for 16 weeks.
1406
Arsenal defender Laurent Koscielny (groin) and goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny (rib) face fitness tests ahead of Saturday's Barclays Premier League match at Burnley.
1407
Work has started on repairing the roof of the Silverstone motor racing circuit which was damaged by high winds during the last couple of days.
1408
Stephanie Scott's fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley was sitting between Ms Scott's parents Merrilyn and Robert, wearing a yellow flower pinned to his shirt .
1409
The Mindfulness for Travel series was developed for launch of the airline's new Airbus A380 service between London and San Francisco, known for its laid-back California vibes.
1410
Eagle Scout Brian Gewirtz told his family he was going for a walk near his Brooklyn, New York, home on February 17, but didn't come back.
1411
They found skin cells appear to attach to each other using tiny tubes that then pull them together so they interlock like a zip.
1412
Zeenat said: 'Kate Moss's wedding dress was beautiful , everything from the dress to the veil and the flower girls were very boho and very unique.'
1413
The bungling fishermen who had to be rescued from their DIY boat, who have been named as Aaron Jones, right, and Jamie Toms, left .
1414
The widow ran a successful cafe, Silva's Cafe, in Church Street, Edmonton - where members of the public laid floral tributes after her murder on September 4 last year .
1415
'I was walking my dog about two streets down for where I live, and it’s on the way to the dog park I go to every day,' Ms Verrall told Daily Mail Australia.
1416
Professor Bryan Sykes of the University of Oxford claims a towering woman named Zana who lived in 19th Century Russia - and appeared to be 'half human, half ape' - could have been the fabled yeti.
1417
An Italian ice cream man pursued his older rival in his van and then punched him through the driver's window in a turf war over 'stealing' customers from a new housing development.
1418
SUBS .
Aston Villa midfielder Fabian Delph (left) battles for the ball with Ashley Young of Manchester United .
Joe Cole (for Weimann 77mins) UNUSED .
1419
Candle entrepreneur Jo Malone has joined 5,000 small business bosses praising the Tories' as the 'only people' who can keep the economy secure .
1420
'But I say that hoping that we can conclude this diplomatic arrangement — and that it ushers a new era in U.S.-Iranian relations — and, just as importantly, over time, a new era in Iranian relations with its neighbors.'
1421
The FBI is investigating and security is being increased at other airports in Southern California because of a 'known threat' to LAX from ISIS, according to a federal law enforcement official.
1422
It's the ultimate treat for Benedict Cumberbatch fans and stands an imposing 6ft tall - just like the man himself.
Reaction to the sculpture was mixed, with some shoppers bursting into laughter .
1423
Usain Bolt will compete at the IAAF/BTC World Relays in the Bahamas next month, the Jamaica Athletics Administrative Association has announced.
1424
Broad produced his best and quickest bowling since knee surgery last year to take three wickets for 19 here in Grenada before a defiant last wicket stand of 52 from Devendra Bishoo and Shannon Gabriel lifted West Indies to 299.
1425
Peerless champion jockey AP McCoy described the final day of his record-breaking career as ‘the hardest day’ of his life as he left Sandown on Saturday night and headed into retirement.
1426
'We'll see what he does next, but I think he's fought his way out of all situations and I think that this time he will find a path that gives him a new challenge.
1427
Her two lovers, Ms Brown, 41, and Ms Knight, 39, were once a straight married couple – when Ms Brown was a man.
The Lib Dem candidate said: 'It just works.
1428
'People like to make theories,' Ryves says in a trailer for the documentary, explaining how he had initially set several ground rules - such as 'No Racism' - for the thread in a bid to ensure fairness.
1429
Police say that they questioned the husband extensively but believe his story and have not filed charges against him.
But no charges have been filed against him.
1430
Jemma Gawned, who appeared on the first season of the Australian Big Brother in 2001, now runs a wildly successful raw food empire called Naked Treaties .
1431
YouTube user Serpentor filmed his feline friend in action - footage shows the tabby producing bizarre gurgling noises as she is petted .
1432
Rickie Fowler has earned extra brownie points with his growing legion of fans after calling out an online hater who accused his girlfriend of being a 'gold digger.'
1433
Mamadou Sakho limped off early on in Liverpool's 1-0 FA Cup sixth round replay win over Blackburn Rovers to leave Brendan Rodgers with just two available first-team centre backs.
1434
Grisly find:
What went wrong?
Officials are awaiting he official report from the medical examiner before releasing the cause and manner of death .
1435
Retired chief executive René Dee watched as his wife Eileen, 68, slipped away just days after catching the infection and before the couple's son had a chance to say goodbye.
1436
Pacquiao started to warm-up in front of the gathered crowd after first speaking to the media (right) Pacquiao opened up about his journey from fighting in the Philippines to the richest boxing bout in history .
1437
Miss Faal was trying to move a wooden pallet when she fell down the gap, smashing her face and trapping her leg on the way down.
Source: NHS Direct .
1438
Ms Monaghan told Daily Mail Australia.
Tamblyn Models have also started a fundraising campaign to help Venessa and her family through her cancer treatment.
1439
But for the time being non-US travellers will not be able to book rooms or flats in Cuba through the website.
1440
The thief entered a branch of Lloyds bank in New Milton, Hampshire (pictured) before threatening cashier staff and ordering them to hand over money .
1441
He then uses a white eye pencil on his waterline, the sliver of skin between the eye and the lower lashes, which is a trick that he says will 'widen your eyes'.
1442
Mr Miliband said as Labour leader he used to use an iPhone, but gave it up for a BlackBerry because he spent too much time reading tweets and political commentary .
1443
Mr Howarth, 35, says he has to change the channel when Mr Farage appears or he becomes physically sick .
'Some people can have similar reaction to their boss.
1444
Lewis Hamilton (right) and Nico Rosberg have both had their say on Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix .
Racing.
Don’t take away the fun of the racing.
1445
It was alleged Sunday that chef Bobby Flay has been having an affair with his assistant Eliyse Tirrell and that it led to the breakdown of his marriage to Stephanie March .
1446
On Saturday Schurrle came on as a second-half substitute during Wolfsburg 2-0 win away to Hamburg after attending a charity ball with Yorke to raise money for Hamburg Children's Hospital.
1447
Barbaric:
The new list of religious punishments pertains to the IS-controlled province of Aleppo and claims to be based on Sharia law.
1448
Top-ranked Serena Williams overcame a stiff challenge in the opening set for a 7-6 (5), 6-2 win over Camila Giorgi on Saturday to give the United States a 1-0 lead over Italy in a Fed Cup World Group playoff.
1449
Letizia then proceeded to showcase her involvement with the cause, and delivered a speech at the congress for rare childhood diseases.
1450
A former Playboy model is facing common assault charges for allegedly punching a young woman in a Queensland pub, despite the victim withdrawing her complaint.
1451
Google partnered with Catlin Seaview Survey and Adrian Shine from the Loch Ness and Morar Project to capture the Street View images (Loch Ness and Urquhart Castle pictured).
1452
When used internally, these compounds are liver tonics that improve bile flow, stimulate digestion and act as a tonic on the bowel wall.
1453
Plastic surgeon-in-chief Dr. John Meara of Boston Children's Hospital spent months preparing for Violet's surgery, specifically with molds of her skull that were made using a 3D printer.
1454
Helsinborg manager Henrik Larsson was forced to play 42-year-old kit man Daniel Andersson in goal .
Going from kit man, to goalie coach, to playing.
1455
City go into the derby at Old Trafford in fourth place, one point behind their neighbours after a 2-1 defeat at Crystal Palace on Monday.
1456
Shared iPad students scored around 30 points higher in a test than students who used the device on their own and non-iPad users (stock image above)
1457
Liz Norden, right, whose sons JP and Paul each lost a leg in the Boston bombings, has said a planned film by Mark Wahlberg, left, dramatizing the bombings is premature .
1458
Mike Whitehead, who was standing against Labour's Alan Johnson for the Tories in Hull, claimed he was joining Ukip after becoming 'disgusted' at the behaviour of the ruling Conservative group in his area.
1459
A union plumber, a school teacher and a survivor of the 1999 Columbine High School massacre were among the 19 women and five men chosen to serve as jurors in the death penalty trial of Colorado theater shooter James Holmes.
1460
A teacher at a Louisiana high school arrested on suspicion of having sex with a 15-year-old freshman two years ago has admitted to the relationship and apologized for 'taking the victim's innocence,' according to an affidavit.
1461
When Erakat tells one man he's doesn't need money, he's just trying to 'help out today,' the man ‘Does it look like I need your money?
1462
Thistle midfielder James Craigen had been shown a straight red card by referee Willie Collum for a 'last man' foul on Hoops midfielder Stuart Armstrong to concede the spot-kick.
1463
Skiing with a friend in Revelstoke, Canada, Zach Birnie stands at the top of a mountain and films the surrounding scenery with a camera mounted to his helmet.
1464
An Aintree racegoer is seen staggering towards an elderly man, before he barges into him and knocks him onto the floor into a road, leaving the man injured and lying on the floor as he walks off .
1465
Four are my players, first-team players who train with the first-team every day and develop with the first-team.
The objective we are fighting for, I love it too.'
1466
The bodies of a 37-year-old woman, a 2-year-old girl and an 8-year-old boy were discovered by police Monday night, Eastpointe police Lt. Neil Childs said, and investigators were trying to determine the circumstances surrounding the deaths.
1467
The crew of a Turkish airlines flight are being investigated after they allowed Turkish football team captain Arda Turan into the cockpit so he could use the tannoy to congratulate his team-mates.
1468
Lawyer Julian McMahon carries a self-portrait painted by Australian death row prisoner Myuran Sukumaran .
'72 hours just started':
1469
A six-month old baby with severe burns on her face was among traumatised survivors of another sea rescue near Italy's Lampedusa Island on Friday (refugees in Sicily pictured)
1470
Supermodel Naomi Campbell, who once posed for PETA’s infamous ‘I’d rather go naked than wear fur’ campaign, then went on to become the face of fur couturier Dennis Basso in 2010.
1471
Kevin Pimentel, 12, shot dead his six-year-old brother, Brady, as they made dinner inside their mobile home in Hudson, Florida last week - before shooting his older brother in the leg and then taking his own life.
1472
By about 2pm, the woman agreed to be rescued and police officers were able to grab the woman by the arms and pull her to safety on the bridge, where she was then taken to Elmhurst Hospital by ambulance for observation.
1473
The ever industrious Parker (left) dribbles away from the challenge of Wigan's Kim Bo-Kyung (right) Wigan winger Jermaine Pennant (left) scores a stunning free-kick to level the scores 1-1 against Fulham .
1474
The 48-year-old has been plagued by medical ailments since being charged with murder and attempted murder in January - collapsing in court multiple times and routinely complaining of stomach problems.
1475
Manchester United will offer Robin van Persie £5million to quit the club this summer.
Manchester United will offer Robin van Persie £5million to quit the club this summer .
1476
And the big win in the Manchester derby inspired Twitter users to produce a series of viral images which tended to pick fun at City's expense.
1477
Dinorah Santana, the player's agent and ex-wife, said at a press conference on Thursday that her client had rejected the offer of a three-year contract extension, which was dependent on the player taking part in 60 per cent of matches for the club.
1478
While Ribery, Benatia and Alaba chatted in the home dugout ahead of kick-off, Holland international Arjen Robben was in front of the mic doing some punditry alongside Bayern goalkeeping legend Oliver Kahn.
1479
Arnold Palmer defied his age and a shoulder injury to hit the ceremonial opening drive of the 79th Masters and provide the first storyline at Augusta National this year.
1480
'Last season, I was part of a team who lost the Champions League in the last minute, so that's something I still want to win, and to be able to play for a Premier League title every season is also a big motivation,' Courtois told the club magazine.
1481
It was supposed to be the place where Stephanie Scott was to spend the happiest day of her life, instead her wedding venue seemed like the loneliest place on the planet.
1482
Staffordshire Police Deputy Chief Constable Nick Baker called Rushton ‘a disgrace to the police service’ who had ‘brought shame on himself, his colleagues’ and the force.
1483
Elad Hershkowitz, a zookeeper at the Zoological Center in Tel Aviv, placed a GoPro camera at the bottom of water troughs to capture the different perspectives.
1484
Dog Molly had been on a walk with owner Jane Tipper and her daughter Hannah in Eype, Dorset, last week when the she fell over the cliff's edge along with the lamb.
1485
The father of one of three teenagers arrested in Turkey on suspicion of trying to join Islamic State fighters in Syria works for the Ministry of Defence, it has been revealed.
1486
Darren Wheatcroft (centre) pleaded guilty to attempting to arrange a fight between illegal pit bull terrier-type dogs, while his son, Callan (left), and farmer Simon Whitworth (right) pleaded guilty to training the animals for fighting .
1487
Miranda and his Atletico Madrid team-mates were left riled when Mazic, who refereed at the 2014 World Cup, failed to punish Sergio Ramos for what appeared to be an elbow on Mario Mandzukic.
1488
It’s earned him cult status with the Allianz Park crowd, who chant ‘Bosch, Bosch, Bosch’ whenever he lines up one of his kicks.
1489
In a second similar incident, concerned shoppers called police when they saw a man being beaten up in Market Place in Wigan at about 2.40pm on Saturday.
1490
But following the outbreak of the Second World War, the space was redeveloped as an air raid shelter where residents of Lancashire and Cheshire could hide from Nazi bombs.
1491
Initial police reports indicated the fall was an accident but authorities are investigating the possibility that Mogni was robbed.
1492
A day at the races (from left): Fabio Borini, Glen Johnson, Dani Lawrence (wife of Brad Jones), Laura Johnson and Borini's wife, Erin O'Neill enjoy opening day of the Grand National Meeting at Aintree .
1493
Sam Allardyce has fired a warning to full back Aaron Cresswell - whose been linked with a move to Manchester City - that the grass isn't always greener and he should look at Jack Rodwell and Scott Sinclair as examples.
1494
323 - Raul .
Dean is the widely regarded as greatest player to have been born on Merseyside, and scored 60 goals in one league season in 1927/28.
1495
Author Anthony Horowitz (pictured right) said books by comedian David Walliams (left) – who was the UK’s top-selling children’s author last year – are ‘witty and entertaining’ but nowhere near ambitious enough .
1496
Common creams used to treat athlete's foot and eczema could undo the damage of multiple sclerosis, scientists claim.
1497
Metz gave themselves at least some hope of staying up as Modibo Maiga's hat-trick earned them a 3-2 victory over relegation rivals Toulouse.
1498
'It was a bit of tick and pass at times, which is disappointing, but I thought our attack was good,' Wane said.
It takes good performances to beat us.
1499
Most commercial poultry barns are shut tight to keep the diseases out, and poultry farms with good biosecurity strictly limit who is allowed in - but is does not always protect poultry from bird flu .
1500
In a statement, Mr Burns again apologised 'unreservedly', in particular to the people at the match and members of the Richmond Football Club.
1501
The most important piece is the Maria Christina Royal Devant-de-­Corsage brooch, which was presented as a wedding gift from King Alfonso XII of Spain to his wife, the Archduchess Maria Christina of Austria in November 1879.
1502
Sainsbury’s and Waitrose said they would investigate immediately.
Sainsbury’s (pictured) and Waitrose said they would investigate the findings immediately .
1503
England Under 21 captain Jack Butland has revealed voting for team-mate Harry Kane as this season's PFA Young Player of the Year and hopes the Tottenham hotshot can help him emulate goalkeeping skipper Iker Casillas at the European Championship in the Czech Republic this summer.
1504
On Tuesday, Kim Kardashian was removed from this photo of her dining at a non-kosher venue with her husband, Kanye West, and Jerusalem's mayor, Nir Barkat, by the ultra-Orthodox news site, Hakikar .
1505
A tsunami evacuation route sign  in Nehalem, Oregon, just one of the Pacific Northwest communities in the path of a potentially deadly tsunami that could be similar to the one in 2011 that ravaged parts of Japan .
1506
A man who allegedly killed three men while they slept outside and shot a woman on her way home from  dinner  originally set out to rob his victims but was overcome with 'bloodlust,' according to a statement filed in court.
1507
Porto's defence was not the only thing to be ripped apart at the Allianz Arena on Tuesday night as a jubilant Bayern Munich manager Pep Guardiola was left with a hole in his trousers.
1508
The donor has fathered many more children – 99 in total, including the ones on Belgium, along with 44 across Scandinavia, 34 in America and one in Iceland. A class action lawsuit claims it failed to properly screen for the disorder before using his specimens.
1509
Per Mertesacker is not one to shy away from a verbal confrontation and the defender revealed that bringing back the 'arguing culture' to Arsenal was key to their upturn in results - following a number of heavy defeats.
1510
Her family have rented an RV for the 1,000-mile, 18-hour trip to Sarasota, where Mrs Martin, who uses a wheelchair to get around, will be able to relax on her favorite beach: Siesta Key Beach (pictured)
1511
While Henderson and Byrne did not name the vendor using the 166816 password,  a Google search pointed to Verifone which connects around 27 million payment devices around the world, according to RT.
1512
Pippa, known for her impeccable sense of style, accessorised her look with a black tote, £159 black pumps by Jemima Vine and oversized sunglasses .
Visit site .
1513
Stocks of the influenza vaccine are arriving a month later than expected as scientists have included protection against Influenza A strain H3N2 and Influenza B strain B/Phuket.
1514
Brazilian teams are on alert because of a dengue fever outbreak that has already affected some of the country's top clubs.
1515
'She’s an idiot,' said Aiken, 36.
Aiken placed second to Ruben Studdard (right) in 2003 in the second season of the American Idol talent-search show .
1516
The Pentagon announced Tuesday plans to exhume the bodies of some 400 sailors and Marines who were killed on the USS Oklahoma on December 7, 1941, in the Japanese assault on Pearl Harbor.
1517
Former Arsenal and England defender Sol Campbell is part of a new campaign to encourage minorities to register to vote in next month's general election.
1518
Breaking out: Rye, who came out as a transgender when she was 27, says that 'living an honest life' is the most important thing to her .
1519
Prince Harry's the better one.
After the royal couple’s engagement in October 2010, Miss Bredo (third from left) began working as a lookalike full-time .
1520
Dozens of protesters were arrested on Thursday at the Mauna Kea site, a mountain burial ground said to be visited by the snow goddess Poli'Ahu and a Native Hawaiian leader has called for a 30-day moratorium on construction.
1521
Asked whether the 2010 or 2015 version of Pacquiao would have a better chance of victory against the unbeaten Mayweather, Roach told boxingscene.com : 'That is an interesting question because there are obviously trade-offs between the two versions of Manny.
1522
BioSentinel will use yeast to detect, measure, and compare the impact of deep space radiation on living organisms over long durations beyond Low-Earth Orbit .
1523
But instead of taking her to a nightclub with her university friends, it is alleged the 33-year-old drove off without them and took her to his home where he sexually assaulted and raped her.
1524
Those staying in one of the hotel's 42 Junior and Executive Suites not only have a parlour with a working wood-burning fireplace, but also a fireplace butler on hand to help guests select the perfect, crackling firewood.
1525
Derby's players celebrate after Chris Martin's goal gave them the lead in the second half .
Chris Martin celebrates after giving Derby the lead in the crucial promotion clash .
1526
The purchase was formalised at an Extraordinary General Meeting on Tuesday where the legal team representing Wanda Madrid Investment signed off on the purchase of 726,707 shares for €45million (£32.8m).
1527
Last year Hawaiian-born photographer Dustin Wong, 31, abandoned his job as an engineer to travel the world with only his camera for company.
1528
Last year, another Long Island high school student, 17-year-old Kwasi Enin, picked Yale after being accepted to every Ivy League college.
1529
Lewis Hamilton celebrates his victory at the Bahrain Grand Prix ahead of the Ferrari of Kimi Raikkonen .
But if I am going to say yes, I don't want the driver to fall asleep.
1530
Mixed martial arts fighter Anderson Silva says he will fight for a spot in the Brazilian taekwondo team at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
1531
Dele Alli has set his sights on the Toulon Tournament with England Under 20s as he aims to cap a season that will live long in his memory.
1532
While the La Liga top scorer did manage to play in El Clasico against Real Madrid, his impact was limited and the problem has since become more troublesome.
1533
Geoff Whitington, 63, from Ashford, Kent, was made so sick by obesity-related type 2 diabetes that he had been told he may need a leg amputated .
1534
This will be the fourth meeting between these two sides this season after Spurs won their home league fixture and also won at home in the replay after a draw at Turf Moor in the FA Cup.
1535
Police are investigating whether the blaze is connected to two separate suspicious blazes that were lit two days before at St James Catholic Church in Brighton and St Mary's Catholic Church in St Kilda, where paedophile priest Ronald Pickering served as minister.
1536
Once he finds the right location Mr Barbour spends hours slowly rotating in one spot taking 50 pictures .
 Mr Barbour says he finds photography as an unlikely escape from a recently diagnosed illness .
play video .
1537
Arsenal legend Ian Wright has been confirmed as the man who will present AP McCoy with his 20th and final champion jockeys trophy at Sandown on Saturday.
1538
A year later saw the release of the second film in the series - Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets which saw Harry Potter and Ron Weasley go it alone after Emma's character Hermione is petrified by a giant snake known as the Basilisk.
1539
Gary Neville believes Louis van Gaal's greatest achievement as a football manager is the making of Jose Mourinho.
1540
Never too late: 103-year-old Marie Hunt received an honorary high school diploma 87 years after she would have graduated .
Interrupted education:
1541
'It's much easier to score in the Premier League, where the ball doesn't stop moving, the action is everywhere and the midfield is non-existent,' the striker, who scored 84 Premier League goals and won three titles, told Italian paper La Repubblica.
1542
Relieved owner Tracey Hannant, from Bexleyheath, south London, said her horse looked like Black Beauty when it emerged from the ditch.
Rescue:
1543
Bouris, 33, is best known as the son of Wizard Home Loans founder Mark Bouris and has appeared as an advisor on The Apprentice.
1544
Yassir Ali, 29, of no-fixed-abode, was stopped by traffic police in Birmingham at 3.45pm on February 22 after officers suspected the silver BMW 1 series may have been stolen.
1545
Instead of going to work in an office, the Brisbane gamer known only as Bonnie Doll starts up her Xbox and goes on a killing spree with followers of her live stream.
1546
Mohamud, 23, a naturalized American, had . been instructed by a Muslim cleric to return to the United . States and carry out an act of terrorism, a federal indictment . said.
1547
When the gun was later recovered, after Valencia was taken down by Officer Michael Rapiejko, it was discovered the wire was loose, and only wrapped through the gun's barrel and lock just once, not twice as is standard, allowing the weapon to be used as soon as it was taken.
1548
'I am going to miss you my buddy there wasn't one day we never laughed together thank you for spending a lot of your life with me,' one friend wrote of Mr Wittstock .
1549
Arsenal defender Calum Chambers has enjoyed a promising start to his career in North London, with his versatility proving a key asset in the Gunners backline and is adamant he will play a central part in their future success.
1550
A journalist from the Sikh media asked Mr Miliband if his party would back an independent inquiry into the 1984 massacre at the Golden Temple in Amritsar (file picture used)
1551
She was bushwalking with a male friend and her two children, aged 12 and 13, when she dropped her phone at the lookout, which is almost 1,100 metres above sea level.
1552
Cheever founded The Chow Train non-profit organization in 2005, preparing hot meals in her  licensed mobile kitchen and serving them at city parks out of her personal pickup, which she has been using as a delivery truck because it is more maneuverable.
1553
Charges of up to 20p a minute being charged by operators for free 0800 numbers will end from July 1 under proposals published by the telecoms watchdog, Ofcom, today .
1554
She said wanted to tell these people; 'That boy spent his whole life in the system, that's what went wrong.'
After 16 years Davion was finally home.
1555
Deputy finance minister Dimitris Mardas (pictured) said that Greece will in fact make the payment on time .
Athens has not received bailout funds since August last year .
1556
The youngest member joined aged two and a half, and the oldest was 103.
Mensa (logo shown) was formed by Australian barrister Roland Berrill and scientist and lawyer Dr Lance Ware in Oxford in 1946.
1557
Regarding Charles, 29 per cent think he is performing his duties as Prince of Wales better than he did 10 years ago, while 7 per cent think he is performing his duties worse than a decade ago.
1558
Some sufferers are unable to recognise their own faces.
Mrs Whitear said: 'While I can't describe what my family look like, I know the way that they make me feel'
1559
The Colombian international has scored 12 goals in 33 games in all competitions since joining the La Liga giants in the summer.
1560
Earlier today, Samsung announced better-than-expected profits for the first quarter of 2015 thanks to a rising demand for memory chips.
1561
A prisoner in Oregon has been slapped with an extra 30 days behind bars - for dropping his trousers and flashing a judge.
Umatilla County Corrections Center.
1562
Lichtsteiner played with Hazard at Lille and currently stars alongside Pogba at Juventus, where he feels he is watching 18-year-old forward Coman being sculpted into a special player.
1563
This video captures the moment her boyfriend got down on one knee and popped the question inside the McDonald's restaurant where she works.
1564
Sentenced to die behind bars: Michael Keith Spell, 25, sits in state District Court in Sidney, Mont, Friday April 17, 2015, before being sentenced to 100 years prison for the 2012 murder of a 43-year-old teacher in the booming Bakken oil patch of Montana .
1565
Hollywood portrayal: Black Mass, starring Johnny Depp, is based on the 2001 book, Black Mass: The True Story Of An Unholy Alliance Between The FBI And The Irish Mob, written by Dick Lehr and Gerard O'Neill .
1566
But Hull boss Steve Bruce ahs revealed the club have once again asked FA for permission to rebrand as Hull Tigers.
1567
The former Wimbledon champion is marrying his long-term girlfriend Kim Sears in his hometown of Dunblane on Saturday and visited the cathedral to run through the service with friends, family and his fiancee.
1568
St. Louis forward Ryan Reaves (pictured) pulled out his own tooth after being checked into the glass by Chicago Blackhawks defenseman Brent Seabrook .
1569
'When you ride this bike, the pedalling motion causes the drum of the washing machine to rotate, at the same time, the superfluous electricity is generated which can be used to power the display screen or stored for future use.'
1570
My son is ahead of me, his kayak skimming across the slate blue water.
Unknown: Wigry National Park, in north-east Poland, is the furthest outreach of the Masurian Lakes .
1571
The 28-year-old has suffered 42 injuries and only made 22 appearances in four seasons for the Gunners .
He has made just 22 appearances in four seasons.
1572
Mr Stunz's interest in penis modifications were piqued when he was given a penis pump at 20-years-old and found it felt 'great'.
1573
Now a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the ancient remains of Qasr al-Farid - a rock-cut tomb and part of an ancient Nabatean settlement - stands amidst imposing cliffs and striking rocky outcrop .
1574
The picture of Mr Trousedale and the pensioner has been 'liked' a quarter of a million times and shared by 70,000 people.
Good people still exist.'
1575
Fighter pilots flying the deadly F-35 Lightning II jet have very special  secret weapon - a $400,000 helmet that allows them to see through the plane.
1576
Villagers in Ansai, Shaanxi Province, in central China, dug a 46m well in order to get fresh drinking water, but when the pumped it to the surface the found it was so polluted it could be set on fire .
1577
Manchester United have identified Borussia Dortmund midfielder Ilkay Gundogan as the leading contender to fill Michael Carrick's midfield role.
1578
The model was inspired by similarities between HIV and computer worms such as the highly damaging 'Conficker' worm, first detected in 2008, which has infected military and police computer networks across Europe and is still active today.
1579
Ms D'Argent recently filed a statement of claim at the County Court of Victoria to seek compensation for her injuries from the building owners' corporation and elevator service, Thyssenkrupp Elevator Australia.
1580
If the user doesn't have signal on their network, the app lets them 'roam' onto another network to connect the call.
Unable to speak on the phone?
1581
But in January Mr Balls, the shadow chancellor, said: 'I think if you abolished the whole status then probably it ends up costing Britain money because there will be some people who will then leave the country.'
1582
In an interview with MailOnline, Mr Clegg said Mr Farage's 'mask is slipping' to reveal a man uncomfortable talking about people who are not white 'lashing out' in a scrabble for headlines.
1583
More than 500 passengers were taken to Manhattan after spending roughly an hour and a half trapped beneath the East River.
1584
Ravel Morrison has posted a picture of himself posing in his new Lazio bathrobe on his official Instagram account.
1585
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg said he wanted to tackle 'dangerous levels of air pollution' which cut average life expectancy by up to eight months.
1586
At a screening of the documentary Trace Amounts, the nephew of President John F Kennedy spoke out against a proposed bill in California which would make childhood immunizations mandatory - no matter what their parent's personal beliefs on the vaccines.
1587
An illegally traded Vietnamese crocodile lays in a pool of blood, while Crocodile farmers remove live organs .
Turtle meat is believed to cure cancer .
1588
Bobby Moynihan, playing a reporter on the ground, explained by saying: 'We couldn't get any footage from the actual negotiations - but once again CNN has the next best thing'.
1589
Four years after the 2011 revolution that saw Colonel Gaddafi's hold on Libya crumbled, the once feared Bab al-Aziziya compound, situated in the capital city of Tripoli, resembles a wasteland.
1590
Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu has told Lionel Messi that he would like the Argentine star to stay with the club until he retires.
1591
Gary Saurage, 45, who runs the Gator Country wildlife park in Beaumont, Texas, was called out on Monday morning to catch a giant 400lb, 11ft-long alligator from a family's backyard pond.
1592
Manchester United duo David de Gea and Victor Valdes made the most of the rare English sun with a trip to a theme park on Tuesday afternoon.
1593
Jurors have started deliberations in the case against a man accused of killing 6-year-old Etan Patz, whose 1979 disappearance while on his way to school helped galvanize the national missing-children's movement.
1594
New figures show that 272 youngsters left disabled by Foetal Alcohol Syndrome were hospitalised in England over the past 12 months, according to the official Health and Social Care Information Centre .
1595
'After we discovered the baby girl, we checked the CCTV footage, we found this woman likely to be the mother of the baby, so we called the ambulance as well as the police,' one worker said.
1596
As rescue efforts continued throughout the Nepalese capital, more than 1,000 passengers formed a one kilometre-long queue outside the nearby airport in a desperate attempt to flee the stricken city .
1597
Crystal Palace chairman Steve Parish has revealed he wants to bring in extra investment so the club can improve their Selhurst Park home.
1598
The visitors missed a penalty early in the second half when Paraguay striker Lucas Barrios fired a penalty over the crossbar.
Booke: Dabo, Congre .
1599
'Most people in Eritrea think that if a girl is cut, she will grow up to be a good girl; that she will not bring shame on her family and she will marry well.
1600
His father, pastor Kevin Clark, claimed his son had been 'driving erratically' because he was having trouble breathing and was searching for his inhaler.
1601
In a Versace gown at this year's Oscars, Jennifer Aniston showed off her well-toned arms.
Her PT sessions include 20-25 minutes of spinning, followed by 45 minutes of yoga .
1602
Chelsea can take another step closer towards securing the Premier League title when they face Arsenal on Sunday, and Jose Mourinho's side stepped up their preparations for the Emirates showdown in training on Friday.
1603
Henry said what all Arsenal fans know, but most refuse to admit – Fabregas would have had a bigger impact in that team this season than Ozil has.
1604
Eat: 125g fillet of mackerel gives you 116mg of magnesium; 100g of pumpkin seeds provides you with 530mg; spinach gives you 70mg per 100g; dark chocolate gives you 327mg per 100g.
1605
The passenger was badly injured after the driver of the Ferrari, reportedly purchased only a week ago, smashed into a tree in the Adelaide suburb of North Brighton.
1606
Elspeth's father Euan, 43, told the inquest: 'She was not happy about her diagnosis and she wanted to be Elspeth and felt the diagnosis was a waste of time.
1607
Greenpeace activists scale the Polar Pioneer drill rig in the Pacific Ocean to unfurl a banner with the names of millions of people opposed to Arctic drilling .
1608
Thomas Kok, the cousin of the children's father, who spent the night at the children's hospital with Awel, visited the crash site on Thursday morning to pay tribute to the children.
1609
Stella was born to Irish parents Stella Maynes and Maurice Maxwell, who worked as a diplomat, and has lived all over the world thanks to her father's job .
1610
The Jaguars, who are committed to playing one home game each year in London until 2015, have opened a competition for UK-based fans via nfluk.com, and the winner will announce the draft picks live on Sky Sports in the UK and the NFL Network in the United States.
1611
Manchester City players have backed Patrick Vieira (left) to replace Manuel Pellegrini as manager of the club - if the latter at the helm of the Etihad Stadium outfit is sacked at the end of the season .
1612
Eric Clapton married Pattie Boyd, the ex-wife of his friend George Harrison, in 1979 .
Pattie, now 71, met property developer Rod back in 1991 and he became her long-term partner .
1613
Supervisor Eric Mar, a representative in charge of the area, told the Chronicle : 'The police captains I've spoken with tell me this is the worst case of hoarding they have ever seen.'
1614
Floyd Mayweather Jnr took to the swimming pool to continue his mega-fight preparations .
On Saturday Filipino-fighter Pacquiao tested his fitness against the steepness of some mountain roads.
1615
Raquel D'Apice, a comedian and mother-of-one from New Jersey, has put her own personal spin on crowd-sourced assessments by creating Yelp Reviews of Newborns, an entertaining collection of spoof critiques that highlight the real struggles plaguing new parents today.
1616
A prisoner who shared a ride to jail with Freddie Gray claims the 25-year-old was trying to injure himself inside a police van before he died from unexplained spinal cord injuries, according to a leaked police report.
1617
Watch as this brazen thief allegedly steals a donation box ahead of ANZAC Day at an RSL club in Melbourne .
Mr Frost said he has informed police about the incident.
1618
FC United of Manchester, the club set up in protest at the Glazer family's takeover of Manchester United, are now two promotions away from the Football League.
1619
Amber Phillips, pictured with her mother when she was a child, said that her mother would have wanted to end her own life to reclaim her dignity and would have wanted all her family members present .
1620
What has been surprising is the way they have come on this season.
Chambers (right) has played at right back, centre-back and midfield for Arsenal during the season .
1621
Dani Alves has been offered a new Barcelona deal according to the player's agent, Dinorah Santana.
'On Monday, I had a meeting with [director] Javier Bordad,' Santana told Sport.
1622
A new North Korean school textbook claims that dictator Kim Jong-un (pictured, above, on a boat with military chiefs) learned to drive aged three and won a yacht race aged nine .
1623
This Bat Gremlin from Gremlins 2: The New Batch has a value of $8,000 and is one of a few Gremlins items .
Baker also worked on Planet of the Apes.
1624
Now its Houston owner Safer Hassan has 30 days to get rid of the license plate '370H55V' - after the Texan Department for Motor Vehicles saw it spelled 'A**HOLE' upside-down.
1625
It's the second night out this week for the party girl, who was seen laughing and joking with friend Irene Forte at the launch party for new London restaurant, The Ivy Chelsea Garden, on Tuesday.
1626
Cannabis can kill cancer cells and helps shrink one of the most serious types of brain tumour, new advice reveals .
THC increases appetite and reduces nausea.
1627
To find him in the stomach of a snake is not pretty.'
Scrub pythons can grow to be up to eight metres long, and are known to eat mammals as large as kangaroos .
1628
Doctors have now warned Ms Coulson that she needs to lose weight to cure her condition - but she says she needs a state-funded support worker to write her meal plans.
1629
His layer Paul Pfingst pictured on the right .
When Doshay appeared in court on Friday, reporters were barred from taking his picture or broadcasting his image.
1630
The Leeds captain entered the action five minutes into the second half but his side were trailing 20-4 by then after a break by lively substitute Daryl Clark created the position for Ratchford to get Currie over for Warrington's fourth try.
1631
Van Ryn (left) sat calmly in the dock and did not look at the young woman as she told Sydney's District Court on Monday about the impact his abuse has had on her.
1632
The widow said her husband's death was sudden, but said: 'It was in the sense of the word sudden but we knew it was going to happen because the lung specialist in Guernsey told us.'
1633
The squad contains talented young players from a host of Premier League clubs including Jay Dasilva and Ike Ugbo of Chelsea and the Arsenal duo Chris Willock and Stephy Mavididi, who is called up for the first time.
1634
Paris Saint-Germain striker Ibrahimovic will now miss three games and Marseille playmaker Payet just one after both clubs succeeded with appeals to the French Olympic Committee (CNOSF).
1635
Specialist police divers and around 30 firefighters joined the search for a 19-year-old man who got into difficulty while swimming in Hampstead Ponds in Hampstead Heath, north London, yesterday afternoon .
1636
Roach is a good man and a brilliant trainer but Money Mayweather is way too smart to fall for that.
Pep’s T-shirt protest is no crime, UEFA .
1637
Dwight Howard, who scored 28 points, and James Harden, who added 24, dominated early in the final period to steer the Rockets to victory.
1638
Haywood reveals that one traveller once asked her to find a white horse at sunset for a post-wedding shoot - only hours before they needed it!
1639
Kevin Bowes lost several teeth, had four 'avoidable' root canal treatments and five 'avoidable' crowns fitted at the hands of Dr Nicholas Crees at his practice in Guisborough, North Yorkshire.
1640
The top three nations in UEFA's rankings qualify for the Europa League, with England currently sitting third and West Ham topping the Barclays Premier League's Fair Play table.
1641
The prelate was sacked from a religious order in Taranto after one of his online lovers contacted the church authorities with a dossier containing alleged evidence of sex with prostitutes, role play and explicit gay web chats.
1642
But Henderson urged his team not to give up on the top-four race with seven games to play, and to bounce back immediately on Wednesday night when they take on Blackburn in an FA Cup quarter-final replay.
1643
This is the shocking moment a young Kurdish girl fires a machine gun at ISIS, before boasting she has killed 400 of the Islamic militants - as she is egged on with cries of 'kill, kill'.
1644
Thomsen's prediction was made as the Greek government repeated previous threats that unless more bail out money was made available then it would stop paying back creditors .
1645
A time lapse video, filmed from the platform over a 45 minute period at 11am, shows the water creeping along the tracks at Bardwell Park in Sydney's south forcing the partial closure of the T2 Airport line.
1646
The man behind the facility is Tao Ran, a doctor and colonel in the People’s Liberation Army, regarded as China’s leading expert in wangyin, or internet addiction, which is said by the country’s government to affect 24 million of its 632 million internet users.
1647
A court heard Claudia Martins (pictured) was suffering from a condition known as a 'pathological denial of pregnancy' 'Immediately thereafter you hid the baby in a suitcase and it was not discovered for three days.
1648
Frank Sinatra (left) underwent a vasectomy so could not have fathered Ronan Farrow, (right) according to his youngest daughter, Tina Sinatra .
1649
The Belgium striker was signed by Liverpool in a £10million deal after impressing at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, before being loaned back to Lille for the 2014-15 season.
1650
Tetzner left the FLDS church eight years ago, about a year after the cult's leader Warren Jeffs was arrested for organizing marriages between men in his cult and underage girls.
1651
The Chelsea playmaker is closing in on a first Premier League title after another impressive season, which has seen him emerge as favourite to pick up the PFA Player of the Year award.
1652
An ISIS militant uses a sledgehammer to destroy a several thousand years old stone slab in a video allegedly showing the group's attack on the ancient ruins of the city of Nimrud, near Mosul, Iraq .
1653
Nicola Bonn, 34, from London, started a candid blog called Upfront Mama detailing the trials and tribulations of raising her little girl Poppy, 14 months, and many of her posts have gone viral .
1654
Not a victory parade, but a trip, a week where we play a couple of matches but, at the same time, can be together without the pressure of winning every match, without the pressure and tension of the last weeks of the Premier League.
1655
Tim Sherwood said his Aston Villa team ‘bamboozled’ Liverpool and paid particular tribute to Christian Benteke, Fabian Delph and Jack Grealish, the teenager who shone on his Wembley debut.
1656
Their system would use the Extreme Universe Space Observatory’s (EUSO) super-wide-field telescope on Japan’s Kibo Experiment Module on the ISS (shown)
1657
CCTV footage shows the youngsters shooting at properties, cars and each other as they blatantly carry the air rifles and BB guns through the estate, sparking terror among the area's residents.
1658
Bayer Leverkusen has released Emir Spahic from his contract with immediate effect following his fight with security personnel after the German Cup defeat to Bayern Munich.
1659
A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'Police arrested a 33-year-old male and a 31-year-old woman on April 7 on suspicion of shoplifting at Harrods.
1660
The former Gunners striker said that Coquelin was his man of the match in Arsenal's 1-0 win, and he labelled the 23-year-old 'Columbo'.
1661
Tyler Grant, pictured outside a Whataburger on Sunday morning, claims the restaurant denied service because Grant was wearing a dress .
1662
Cheyrl Rios doesn't think a woman can be president because she has female 'hormones' that would get in the way of her being able to start a war .
1663
Dawn had been petrified of snakes ever since she watched B-movie Venom when she was seven years old, she explained.
Philip asked her: 'Do you find it irrational?
1664
Mr Miliband, pictured, has constantly lagged behind Prime Minister David Cameron in the personal rating polls .
ExtendedMind did not respond to a request for comment.
1665
Last night, as it emerged that a Taliban thug suspected of murder in Afghanistan has won the right to stay in Britain on human rights grounds, Rafi – who is leading the fight to help other interpreters stay in the UK – said: ‘Human rights?
1666
There were no greyhound training facilities or other connections to the racing industry in the area, a police spokesperson said.
1667
A former Democratic congressional aide who pleaded guilty last year to raping two women was spared jail time on Friday because horrific disfiguring injuries he suffered in an unrelated 2013 acid attack.
1668
Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany has slammed FFP for protecting the established order of clubs .
Our owners have invested to build a successful club.
1669
Everton may be languishing in the bottom half of the Premier League table but that didn't stop nearly 4,000 staunch supporters turning out to watch an open training session at Goodison Park on Tuesday.
1670
Miss Sturgeon, Mr Murphy, Tory leader Ruth Davidson and LibDem leader Willie Rennie – who all took part in an STV debate the previous night – were joined by UKIP's only elected politician in Scotland, MEP David Coburn, and Scottish Green co-convener Patrick Harvie.
1671
Three men hired by the farm were cleared to open fire Friday afternoon in a stream in woods in the town of Coeymans, about 10 miles south of the state capital Albany.
1672
Roma, who are just one point clear of Lazio, host fellow Champions League hopefuls Napoli on Saturday.
The Bergamo club has not won since February 1.
1673
Many Britons have given up on their dream of owning a home amid high house prices and poor pay rises, research has found .
1674
'I don't think too many 55-year-olds look that good on a beach do they,' he said, 'but I have promised my good lady I will go on a diet.
1675
He has just been given licence to pick one of the finest backs of the era for the World Cup, but Michael Cheika is more pre-occupied with the denigration of his Wallaby pack.
1676
Nowadays, the man or woman is also likely to try and photograph their food or keep checking their phone at the table.
1677
While Depay has been tipped to become as good as Dutch star Arjen Robben by PSV manager Phillip Cocu, one man believes the Holland youngster could one day rival Cristiano Ronaldo.
1678
'The Wimbledon that I really felt was Andy Murray’s victory because it was very special for him,' said Mourinho as he was given a tour of SW19 as part of a new deal between Jaguar and the All England Lawn Tennis Club.
1679
Jurgen Klopp put England's top clubs on alert on Wednesday by confirming that he will leave Borussia Dortmund at the end of the season after seven years in charge.
1680
Water in the air, even in dry areas, can be transformed into ice crystals by using planes to seed the atmosphere with chemicals such as silver iodide or dry ice .
1681
Bid to find online 'lover': Canadian Jake Malone flew more than 6,000 miles from Vancouver to Shenzhenand turned himself into a walking billboard in a desperate bid to track down a woman he met online .
1682
The Clinton Foundation only reported that Telfer gave it $250,000, though tax records reviewed by The New York Times show that Telfer's Fernwood Foundation gave $1 million in 2009, $250,000 in 2010, $600,000 in 2011 and $500,000 in 2012.
1683
The council tested the technique on a small patch of paving and said the reaction had been 'overwhelmingly' in support for the scheme from cyclists, pedestrians and wheelchair users.
1684
Jamyra Gallmon, 21, (pictured graduating from her military academy high school) has been charged with first-degree felony murder while armed for allegedly stabbing to death 30-year-old David Messerschmitt on February 9 .
1685
The yellow warms up the darker hue, Ahern says . 'To avoid your scheme looking and feeling dull, adding oodles of texture and the odd pop of colour' 8.
1686
Extracts from the 13-page note show that Chua wrote about 'a devil in me', going 'straight to hell' and being 'an evil person' making a 'bitter nurse confession'
1687
Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro came back from a dreadful first set to defeat three-times Miami Open champion Venus Williams 0-6, 6-1, 7-5 at Key Biscayne on Tuesday and set up a semi-final clash with Germany's ninth seed Andrea Petkovic.
1688
'For the last four years I've had better days than any days for the 43 years before,' Mr Robb said.
 'We don't need them to wait 43 years like Andrew did,' Ms Burke said .
1689
Anthony Stokes, 17, died on Tuesday after he crashed a stolen Honda into a pole as he fled the scene of an attempted burglary at an elderly woman's home in Roswell, Georgia.
1690
Paul Nungesser is suing Columbia University for allowing Emma Sulkowicz to parade the school and take campus-provided transport with her mattress in protest against him, calling him a rapist .
1691
Sneijder: 'Very sorry.
#Respect'
#Respect.
Leeds fans hold up pictures of Kevin Speight and Christopher Loftus on the 15th anniversary of their death .
1692
Police also caught baggage handlers at Miami International Airport (above) stealing from passenger luggage after installing a hidden camera .
1693
The Empire State Building's 86th floor is home to the highest outdoor observation in New York, offering thrilling views .
Tokyo Skytree, Tokyo, Japan .
1694
At the start of the year the prospect of Manchester United leading rivals Manchester City going into April's derby at Old Trafford looked extremely unlikely.
1695
UKOG boss Mr Lenigas, an Australian who lives in Monaco, is a director of seven British companies and has been criticised in the past for exaggerating the success of his enterprises to jack up share prices.
1696
Major Darin Schierbaum said police were investigating a call about a stolen car when the two officers saw Christian sitting inside the vehicle in a parking deck.
1697
Amanda has two daughters Lexi, nine, and Hollie, three, with record producer husband Chris Hughes, and has shared her love of animals with her family. ‘
1698
Embarrassing: Ed Miliband faced ridicule last night after privately billing himself as the ‘happy warrior’ ahead of last week’s televised Election debate .
1699
Barker (pictured right in the video) had danced at legendary clubs like the Apollo, Cotton Club and Zanzibar Club, and had appeared in movies commercials and television shows .
Barker said the videos made her wish she could get out of bed and 'do it all over again'
But the most special part for Barker was getting the chance to watch herself dance again.
1700
Experts agree that carefully easing the body back into exercise is the best method and Camilla Lawrence, women’s health physiotherapist at Six Physio, tells MailOnline how to get your body back to its pre-pregnancy shape - safely.
1701
Bonnie Edwards identified the children as boys Cameron Todd, 13, and Zycheim Todd, 7; and girls Tynijuiza Todd, 15; Tykira Todd, 12; Tybree Todd, 10; Tyania Todd, 9; and Tybria Todd, 6.
1702
A defence of his crown will be a priority for Grand National hero Many Clouds next season, and trainer Oliver Sherwood has also floated the possibility of a rematch with his Cheltenham Gold Cup conqueror Coneygree in Newbury’s Hennessy Gold Cup.
1703
Metropolitan police are assessing footage which appears to show Arsenal fans singing a homophobic chant about Ashley Cole.
1704
Reality star, Kim Kardashian, 34, was well-known for maintaining her glamorous style and tight-fitting clothing during her pregnancy with child North-West in 2013 .
1705
Lacey Spears of Scottsville, Kentucky, was found guilty last month of second-degree murder in the death of Garnett-Paul Spears at a suburban New York hospital (pictured Wednesday)
1706
The 29-year-old from Dudley would be the first woman ever to reach The Crucible should she win three qualifiers, but she faces a tough start in the form of 1997 world champion Ken Doherty.
1707
Former Rangers defender John Brown insists Ally McCoist will be welcomed back to Ibrox 'with open arms.'
He's got money to put into the club - Rangers need that money.
1708
It follows a provocative speech by Argentinian president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, prompting the Foreign Office to summon her ambassador for a dressing down.
It’s not just wishful thinking.’
1709
It's official: Soon after they said 'I do,' the two shared this image of their wedding rings .
Soon after they said 'I do,' the two shared a black-and-white image of their wedding rings.
Visit site .
The season seven finale of Castle airs May 11.
1710
Also, if you’ve been invited and you’re a man and/or white PLEASE DON’T COME just cos i invited a bunch of people and hope you will be responsible enough to respect this is a BME Women and non-binary event only.’
1711
Sheffield Wednesday chief executive Paul Aldridge (left) will leave the club at the end of next season .
1712
Jade Reader (left) said she was 'overcome with emotion' when her twin sister Shanell (right) gave up part of her liver to save niece Star .
1713
Featherstone prop James Lockwood has been given a two-year ban for breaching the Rugby Football League's anti-doping regulations in the first finding of its kind in the UK.
1714
There were fears of a serious injury for the 6ft 6in German after he twisted the joint but subsequent scans have shown it is a minor sprain.
1715
To put that into context, only Crystal Palace (Dwight Gayle and Mile Jedinak - four) and Sunderland (Adam Johnson and Steven Fletcher - four) have top scorers with fewer Premier League goals than Liverpool.
8. LEICESTER - Leonardo Ulloa.
12.
1716
Lionel Messi posted a picture on his Instagram account of his wife having her stomach kissed by their son .
1717
An Indiegogo page  to raise money in support of police officer Michael Slager had $393 of a $5,000 goal on Thursday - the company told Daily Mail Online 'they don't judge' as long as content fits their terms of use .
1718
Mr Osborne today came face to face with a real Henry the Hoover – and onlookers couldn't fail to notice there was an uncanny resemblance to the Tory campaign chief.
1719
The careers of Tim Sherwood (above) and Chris Ramsey (below) could be shaped by 90 minutes on Tuesday .
Fabian Delph is the beating heart of Villa .
1720
The new mother took baby Stella to court with her, who was born last month at a prison hospital .
When pressed about it, she added: 'Less than that (15 years), I'm innocent.'
1721
Hired by the Labour leader: Mr Axelrod (right) has helped refine Ed Miliband’s message about tackling the cost of living and making sure the wealthy pay their fair share .
1722
The horror car crash comes nearly a year and a half after The Fast and The Furious star Paul Walker (seen in Furious 7) died aged 40 when the Porshe he was traveling in crashed in California in 2013 .
1723
A 44-year-old woman has been shot dead in front of her 12-year-old son by a  stranger she simply laughed at while passing him in her car.
1724
Air steward Brian was 22 when he won the second series of Big Brother in 2001 (l) and he presented the show that found him fame from 2011 to 2013 - here seen on Loose Women in 2013 (r) Kate Lawler . Big Brother 3 .
1725
Verdict: I don’t think they have the strength to carry the title off.
Verdict: I tipped them for the title last season, but they barely ended up escaping relegation.
1726
Although Liverpool, Manchester City and Manchester United have all shown varying degrees of interest in the England Under 21 international they have yet to sign him up as they consider other options also.
1727
The Super Fan Builds team, led by master designer Tim Baker, got to work using jigsaws, grinders and special paint that gives wood a metallic effect.
1728
The Queen's Guard was left red-faced after he slipped on a manhole cover during the popular Changing of the Guard - and unfortunately for him the entire incident was caught on camera.
1729
You will probably know Kefalonia because this was the setting for Louis de Bernières's novel Captain Corelli's Mandolin and, in direct contravention of usual Hollywood policy, was where the movie was actually filmed.
1730
The FOI documents reportedly show staff at the Australian High Commission in India and Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade were aware the couple was from New South Wales, where it is illegal to enter into international surrogacy arrangements.
1731
Today's airstrikes targeted rebel-controlled army camps in the Red Sea port city of Hodeida, and hit warehouses belonging to a factory that produces dairy products .
1732
But experts say the rise – the first since 2003-04 – was partly because victims were 'more willing' to report sex crimes, including historical ones, and police were more likely to take complaints seriously, in the wake of the Jimmy Savile sex abuse scandal.
1733
Happy to break the mould: Saba doesn't flinch in the traditionally male-dominated world of motoring and says: 'Women have very good taste in cars.'
1734
The lawsuit alleges that when Koetters was in his early-to-mid 30s he took part in a yearlong sexual relationship with a 16-year-old student, which began in the 2000-2001 school year.
1735
It would rotate four times per minute to create artificial gravity, and would be 1,300ft (400 metres) long, cost £200 billion ($300 billion) and take 30 years to build .
1736
Kevin Cooper and Trewen Kevern allegedly beat David Alderson and left him to drown, before using his keys to steal £40,000 from a safe where he also kept a haul of guns.
1737
Aston Villa attacker Gabriel Agbonlahor shows he pulls no punches where fitness is concerned as he closes in on a return to first-team action.
1738
A nine-year-old boy was whipped with skipping ropes by his adoptive mother – for not knowing the story of Pinocchio.
1739
Last month, Moscow announced plans on placing state-of-the-art Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad  for what government representatives called a 'major military exercise'.
Getting ready: The CCTV towers will monitor the border between Poland and Kaliningrad, where Moscow recently announced they are set to place state-of-the-art Iskander missiles .
1740
Nottingham Forest (4-1-4-1): Darlow 6.5, Kane 6.5, Wilson 4, Hobbs 5.5, Lichaj 6, Mancienne 6; Burke 6.5, Osborn 6.5 (Lansbury 85), Gardner 7, Antonio 7 (Barrow 90), Akpom 6 (Walker 57, 5)
1741
Huge brood: The family get £39,192 in handouts a year on top of Mr Prudham’s monthly salary of £1,600 as a delivery driver – taking their annual income to nearly £60,000 .
1742
Scroll down for video .
When the red ute pulled in front of the vehicle at a red light, three young people got out to confront the threatened driver.
1743
Officers yelled three times for him to drop the gun, but instead he raised it and pointed it at them, she said.
The man kept firing into the sky, he said.
1744
Tiffany Williams and Jessica Versey, took to social media to post images of themselves – including one of Miss Williams’s bald head (left) and another of Miss Versey’s chest scar (right)
1745
'A Range Rover Vogue was stolen from the driveway of one property while a Mercedes and a BMW were stolen following a burglary at another address.
1746
But the latest pictures released from his training camp, appearing to show him hanging a weight from his head, displays the extreme level he hits in order to be as fit as possible for his fights.
1747
The students have been named as Lena Mamoun Abdelgadir, Nada Sami Kader, Rowan Kamal Zine El Abidine, Tasneem Suleyman Huseyin, Ismail Hamdoun, Tamer Ahmed Ebu Sebah, Mohammed Osama Badri Mohammed, Hisham Mohammed Fadlallah and Sami Ahmed Kadir.
1748
Wild weather:
Boogie boarding:
Currently there are severe weather warnings in place for Metropolitan, Mid North Coast, Hunter and Illawarra.
1749
Javier Mascherano was told exactly where and how he would play as he and Xabi Alonso brought the best out of Steven Gerrard, Juan Mata excelled at Chelsea, David Luiz grew and Jose Callejon has transformed from an £8m Real Madrid squad player to one now valued at £20m by Napoli.
1750
Movistar rider Valverde sprinted to victory ahead of Julian Alaphilippe and Michael Albasini in a race which saw former winner Philippe Gilbert pull out after a bad crash some 50 kilometres from the end.
1751
A black cat who fell sick as a two-month-old kitten is now nursing abandoned sick animals back to health with plenty of purrs and cuddles.
1752
In the clip capturing the attempted resurrection, the boy identified by a witness as Benjamin, is being held in the arms of Texas pastor's wife Aracely Meza as others, including a man who appears to be her husband Pastor Daniel Meza, are gathered around.
1753
‘This is a huge club which deserves more than it is getting at the moment,’ said the midfielder, who was part of another lacklustre display during Monday’s 2-0 defeat at Liverpool.
1754
At Newcastle Crown Court last year Judge Sean Morris jailed Bainbridge for 30 months, her daughter Claire Bainbridge, 21, for 20 months and other daughter Caitlyn Bainbridge, 19, to 16 months behind bars.
1755
Phillip Pama covered his face as he left Brisbane Magistrate Courts where he was granted conditional bail on Friday .
1756
March 2014 Stockholm (1,700 miles) March 2014- Milan (610 miles) June 2014 - Brighton (120 miles) September 2014 - Rowsley, Peak District (308 miles) October 2014 - Amsterdam (462 miles)
1757
Clayton Donaldson (left) scored a late headed winner for Birmingham City as his side defeated Reading 1-0 .
Subs not used: Cotterill, Novak, Doyle, Davis .
1758
Anand Iyer worked for fashion site Threadflip, but ditched his job to spent time at home .
It’s about being there over and over again, I think.
1759
Decorated in a modern and chic way, the house is any beach lover's dream, with steps down from the dining room into the bright living room and an informal living zone.
1760
The part-time judge, Recorder Philip Cattan, 65, from Cheshire was seen to fall asleep during the rape trial of John Quingley at Manchester Crown Court last summer.
1761
If Manuel Pellegrini leaves the Barclays Premier League at the end of this season — and it is by no means certain — then he will leave behind barely a trace.
1762
Mrs Dickson developed blood clots, which can be caused by the synthetic hormones in the contraceptive pill, that then moved to her lungs and caused a pulmonary embolism.
1763
Thousands of chickens and other poultry have been culled following the outbreak of a highly contagious strain of bird flu in India.
Destroyed:
1764
The university itself has created a small sexual assault prevention department last year with a coordinator and three interns, and its athletic department created a new Code of Conduct that addresses sexual assault, according to the Montana Kaimin.
1765
Witnesses say they were traumatized and one passer-by told the Post she initially thought the body was fake and believed it was a 'Halloween prank.'
1766
In that same time period Carrick won four Premier League titles, a Champions League, and played in two other Champions League finals.
I think so.
1767
A study found women routinely ask for £4,000 less for a typical job, but that this widens to up to £10,000 less in more senior industries such as accountancy .
1768
But now well-heeled handbag lovers are paying as much as £200 to give their over-loved bags the equivalent of a spa treatment at a luxury new Handbag Clinic in Chelsea.
1769
Labial reduction procedures - surgery to reduce the size of the inner ‘lips’ of the vagina - have risen five-fold in the past 10 years, with more than 2,000 operations performed on the NHS in 2010 .
1770
An own goal by James Collins and Sergio Aguero's 20th Barclays Premier League strike of the season was enough to give City the three points.
1771
Sofia Vergara's attorney said Friday the actress has no intention of destroying the frozen embryos she created with ex Nick Loeb but has no plans to use them either as she has moved on with her life .
Visit site .
1772
The front pages of Saturday's Australian newspapers featured moving tributes to Richie Benaud, the former Australia captain and iconic cricket commentator, who has died aged 84.
1773
Liverpool’s FA Cup quarter-final against Blackburn kicked off at 4pm, meaning Mr Bodi and Mr Bhula had to say their afternoon prayers at half-time, as the window of opportunity closed before the end of the game.
1774
Sterling is stalling on a new £100,000-a-week contract offer, although he insists it has nothing to do with money and he will reassess at the end of the season.
1775
Kyran Wiltshire is pictured in action for MK Dons in their pre-season friendly against a Tottenham XI in 2013 .
1776
Steven Gerrard and Phil Jagielka stood shoulder-to-shoulder and paid a poignant tribute by releasing 96 red balloons in memory of Liverpool fans who died at Hillsborough.
1777
Neil MacGregor, 68, pictured at the British Museum, which he has lead since 2002, said it was 'a difficult thing' to decide to leave after 13 years .
1778
Obada only started playing American football half way through last season and was mentored by Warriors defensive co-ordinator Aden Durde.
1779
The 21-year-old trainee police officer, who has a 32JJ bust, will be joining the brand's curvy line-up and starring in their Spring/Summer 2016 catalogue shot in the Mediterranean.
1780
Judges sit to preside over verdicts for the sunken South Korean ferry Sewol's crew members who are charged with negligence and abandonment of passengers in the disaster at Gwangju High Court in Gwangju .
1781
Rose McGrath, pictured here with her mother, Barbara McGrath, was dismissed from St Joseph Middle School in Battle Creek, Michigan, for not meeting academic and attendance standards.
1782
Dashcam footage released on Thursday shows Walter Scott running away from his car minutes before he is shot dead by Officer Michael Sager.
1783
Con artists: Balogova, her husband Marek Balog, left, and brother Jaroslav Bado, right, persuaded women from their home country to live in the UK and fraudulently claim child and working tax benefits .
1784
Rickie Fowler has been dating  bikini model Alexis Randock since last year and the 24-year-old caddied for him during The Masters par three contest on Wednesday.
Luke Donald has been married to wife Diane since 2007 .
1785
Manchester City's grip on the Barclays Premier League title was loosened further after a controversial Glenn Murray goal put Crystal Palace on the way to a 2-1 victory.
1786
The alarm was raised after a man spotted the couple in the water a mile from Dungeness Point, Kent, at 3.30pm – and a rescue boat was sent to help them.
1787
Judging by her tiny waist, Sienna Miller works at maintaining her shape.
Sienna Miller s a yoga fan - her mother started one of the first London yoga schools in the Seventies .
1788
But Dave Rickard and his wife Brenda are so devoted to their West Highland terrier Daisy that they didn’t think twice about giving her the kiss of life after she was feared to have drowned.
1789
Victoria Police Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said the 18-year-old men, from Hallam and Hampton Park, were 'associates' of Abdul Numan Haider, the 18-year-old who was shot dead after stabbing two officers outside a Melbourne police station on September 23.
1790
Dismissing the claims, Travolta said it has been a support system for his family for four decades, particularly as he mourned the death of his 16-year-old disabled son Jett in 2009.
1791
The most common symptom of Hodgkin lymphoma is one or more painless swellings in the neck, armpit or groin.
To her relief, she was given the all-clear last September.
1792
However Ramsey then witnessed Cesc Fabregas' late winner and the devastation was too much for the QPR boss, who turned away from the pitch to crouch down and collect his thoughts.
1793
The female, named Varvara, swam 14,000 miles (22,500km) from the east coast of Russia to breeding grounds off the coast of Mexico, and back, without even stopping for a snack when she was nine years old.
1794
I feel like the fans wanted to see me fight, a lot of fans bought tickets and wanted to watch the pay-per-view and see this fight so I'm glad to be here.
1795
A senior Secret Service supervisor has been placed on indefinite administrative leave and is not allowed to enter the office after a female employee accused him of assaulting her at agency headquarters.
1796
Many people are hoping for a girl though - of the 2,200 people polled, a quarter said they wanted the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to have a female baby, with only three percent hoping for a younger brother for George.
1797
Ronald Pearson and his wife Miriam met at an evening dance while he was serving in the RAF police and she the Auxiliary Territorial Service during the Second World War.
1798
Tom Arscott scored a brace of tries for Sale as Mike Haley claimed the other with Danny Cipriani kicking two penalties and a conversion.
1799
The two images were taken 18 years apart, the first with the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array in New Mexico in 1996 and the second by an international team of astronomers led by the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) last year.
1800
Change:
The BBC say the masthead change is to 'simply reflect the fact that all three presenters are currently out of contract on the show'.
1801
Journey Latin America (020 8600 1881, www.journeylatinamerica.co.uk) has a 12-day Value Peru: Sacred Valley Of The Incas to Lake Titicaca itinerary, visiting Lima, Cusco, the Sacred Valley, Machu Picchu, Puno and Lake Titicaca.
1802
In court: Annika McKenzie, 34, has been charged with second-degree assault on school grounds, a felony, and second-degree strangulation in connection with an assault on a teacher at Hempstead's Alverta B. Gray Schultz Middle School .
1803
However, we fully expect Mathews to contest a version of the WBA world championship on Saturday, April 18.'
I have spent 12 weeks away from my wife, family and home.
1804
Looking radiant, Daphne Selfe, 86, shows off the collaboration between the footwear super-brand and the ethereal high street store with uncompromising grace.
1805
World champion Javier Gomez took third.
Brownlee, during the cycling section of the Gold Coast triathlon, has won consecutive races in the ITU series .
1806
'It is the burial grounds of some of our most sacred and revered ancestors,' said she said.
'We said aloha to each other, and we hugged,' she said.
1807
The Georgia State Patrol said three people also were injured and seven vehicles were damaged.
The loss of any student, especially in a tragic way, is particularly painful.
1808
However, within 24 hours, many more sold-out items became available on eBay for under $100, including a $9.99 makeup bag that sold for $19.99 and a $15 headband that sold for $30.
1809
'Choupette became the most famous cat in the world, and the richest,' said Lagerfeld, the head designer for fashion house Chanel.
1810
Michael J from Michigan filmed his 11-month-old daughter Leighton in floods of tears before she was handed a French fry to lure over the family pup, Zayla.
1811
Taking a wild guess at why Las Vegas is often referred to as ‘Sin City’, for example, might seem incredibly obvious - but the nickname actually came about before the Las Vegas was even built.
1812
British world dressage champion Charlotte Dujardin won the Grand Prix at the World Cup in Las Vegas.
'But he was feeling much better and I had a really great ride.’
1813
Sofia Abramovich - the daughter of Chelsea owner Roman - has hit back at people who have criticised her on Instagram saying she is going to turn their negativity into positivity .
1814
Marouane Fellaini has paid tribute to the departing Steven Gerrard, hailing the Liverpool midfielder as being the best passer of the ball he has faced during his professional career.
1815
Organisms that lived in the sea 635 to 541 million years ago, from which humans and other animals evolved, likely had flexible appendages and a complex nervous system.
1816
The second Test that starts here is not exactly make or break for Cook but he needs runs and a victory as much as at any time in a career that has seen him score more Test centuries than any other Englishman.
1817
Aston Villa 4-4-2 (diamond) Brad Guzan 6 .
QPR defender Hill scores his side's second goal during the thrilling 3-3 draw against Aston Villa on Tuesday .
1818
Everton stars Leighton Baines and Luke Garbutt visited Alder Hey Children’s Hospital on Wednesday to spread some Easter cheer for the young patients and their families.
1819
'And when it comes to higher rate taxpayers our priority is increasing the threshold at which you pay that higher rate, the 40p rate, to £50,000.'
1820
Abase Hussen – who blamed police for failing to stop his daughter fleeing to join IS earlier this year – conceded the teenager was ‘maybe’ influenced by the rally organised by banned terror group Al-Muhajiroun.
1821
Skygazers in the western U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand were treated to a total eclipse of the moon before dawn on Saturday (pictured over New Zealand)
1822
Past ads: A man stands next to ad in the New York Subway saying: 'In any war between the civilized man and the savage, support the civilized man.
1823
Seven weeks after Noah was born, Mr and Ms Hines and their newborn flew back to her home of Manchester in the UK to finally undergo surgery to remove her brain tumour, which had almost doubled in size.
1824
A spokesman for Leicestershire Police said a post-mortem examination had failed to establish a cause of death and that results of further tests would not be known 'for some time'.
1825
On the prospect of facing the greatest player in Barcelona's history, Guardiola – the greatest coach the club has had – said: 'We will have to see what we can do in each of the two games and we will try to create the best defensive system possible to stop Messi.
1826
‘I think he enjoys being at Liverpool and loves playing for Liverpool and knows he is privileged to play in front of Liverpool supporters.
1827
Photographer John Massung was flying over Sebastian Inlet on Thursday when he saw hundreds of sharks swarming just 100 feet from the beach.
1828
'We have to win every game.
'They (QPR) need points in these remaining six games.
We know they want to win and they know we want to win.
1829
In Hobart, Scott Clennett, the son of ANZAC veteran James Jim Hoskins Clennett, told how his father returned from the war after he lost an arm and a leg to injuries sustained in battle.
1830
Doyle - described as a ‘well-known and colourful character’ in his native Salford - put down a £200,000 deposit and obtained a £600,000 mortgage by falsely claiming his wife Jeanette, 49, worked as a company executive.
1831
'Unfortunately, at the time, I was too young and naive to realize that because I never actually said, “No,” I was a willing participant.'
1832
Chancellor George Osborne, pictured visiting the Red Cone Cafe in Stourbridge, refused to rule out further cuts to child benefit if the Conservatives win a second term .
1833
Chairman of the Geelong College council, Dr Hugh Seward, told the Geelong Advertiser last week the matter was a serious breach of the school's standards, even if the investigation found Mr Barr not to have broken any law.
1834
Doing short bursts of high intensity exercise leads to higher energy demands and more calories burned, which will help shed weight from the stomach .
1835
A heavily pregnant Jehovah's Witness woman  and her baby died after she was diagnosed with leukemia but refused a blood transfusion that would probably have saved both of their lives.
1836
Geologist Dr Danny Hilman thinks the reason the site is so revered is that it is an ancient pyramid which was built between 9,000 and 20,000 years ago .
1837
Jisr al-Shughour, a city in the northwestern Idlib province, was captured by a terrorist alliance, comprising al-Qaeda affiliates Al-Nusra, who released the video, and other groups of Islamist militants .
1838
The highly-anticipated Champions League quarter-final second leg clash between Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid took place on Wednesday but that didn't bother Jose Mourinho as he watched Fulham Under 21s lose to former club Porto.
1839
The grandmother-of-eight, 54, said: 'The age gap doesn't matter' and she 'Couldn't wish for anything better' When he finally asked her out
1840
And his future took the most unexpected of twists on Friday night after American Peter Quillin, the undefeated former WBO middleweight champion, failed to make required 160 lbs weight ensuring the battle at the Barclays Center will have no title on the line.
1841
Beggs is serving a life sentence in Saughton Prison, Edinburgh, for raping, murdering and dismembering Barry Wallace, 18, in Kilmarnock, Ayrshire, in 1999.
1842
All the big leagues — especially the Premier League — need the best players to play.’ City’s homegrown quota is made up of Boyata, Lampard, Milner, Joe Hart, reserve keeper Richard Wright and Gael Clichy, who qualifies from his years spent with Arsenal.
1843
TOWIE star Jake Hall points to his co-star Chloe Lewis in the stands at York Street after scoring for Boston United in their Conference North match with Tamworth on Monday .
1844
In January this year the head of the Crown Prosecution Service, Alison Saunders, said society must 'challenge' the view that rape victims should be blamed if they had been 'drinking' 'No one should be able to blame rape on a short skirt.
1845
One of the FTSE 100 bosses surveyed, who did not want to be named, said businesses could work with Labour's shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna and its economics chief Ed Balls.
1846
No images of the new vehicle have yet been released, but Dr Heinz-Jakob Neusser suggested that battery packs would be hidden under the vehicle's floor and a small electric motor will drive its front wheels.
1847
An analogue promotional watch from Apple (pictured) with a blue bezel, rubber strap and colourful hands, is listed on the internet auction site with a ‘buy it now’ price of $2,499.99 (£1,707.47) plus postage .
1848
Tammy Abraham scores for Chelsea during their 3-1 FA Youth Cup final first leg win against Manchester City .
Solanke is calm about his future but certainly not complacent.
1849
Showing the strain: At a visit to the Age UK in Plymouth yesterday, David Cameron appeared weary with bags under his eyes and disheveled hair .
1850
The real Queen of Twitter: Her Majesty's @BritishMonarchy is the most followed royal Twitter account .
tweeted 1,209 times and was a favourite with 184 people.
1851
A man charged with assassinating Russian opposition leader Boris Nemstov has told a court he was beaten and pressured into confessing to the murder.
1852
In this photograph police seized from the house of Ivan Milat's brother William, the serial killer is seen carrying the sleeping bag which belonged to Deborah Everist who with boyfriend Jame Gibson was the first of Milat's victims killed in the Belanglo State Forest .
1853
I think the rest of the players had really a good aspiration and ambition to do a good season, to play a good season at a good level.
1854
More than 40 years after The Exorcist (pictured) left cinema audiences green, The Vatican are training up ordinary doctors, teachers and psychologists to cope with a rising tide of demonic possessions .
1855
The Polish father, who may be suffering from amnesia, does not know how he came to lose his memory or be in the UK, and cannot even recall his own name .
1856
Broad said in Australia that he suffered nightmares after being struck in the face by India’s Varun Aaron last summer at Old Trafford, which is something I personally would never have done.
1857
When David Cameron visited the White House in January, he insisted the President had said the special relationship was ‘stronger than it has ever been’.
1858
Legislation banning models with a BMI under 18 is likely to have little effect on the prevalence of anorexia in the general population, but it also offers no support to the models themselves, experts have argued .
1859
He makes the razor sharp swords with steel that is 3mm thick.
After heating up the steel in a furnace, the molten metal is forged and folded into shape.
1860
Prime Minister David Cameron will announce an extension of the right-to-buy scheme which will allow all 1.3million families in housing association properties to buy their home .
1861
'We no longer have store locations,' reads the brand's website, which goes on to note that the online store offers the same selection of products.
1862
Kim Kardashian has launched an outspoken attack on President Obama for refusing to use the word 'genocide' as he marked the 100th anniversary of the massacre of 1.5 million Armenians.
1863
On Wednesday, a post to the page said that the controversial post was made by someone independent to the organisation.
'Think this is an exaggeration?
'Think this is an exaggeration?
1864
The 71-year-old real estate scion awaiting extradition to face murder charges in California appeared in New Orleans accused of illegal gun possession.
1865
Assault:
A GP attacked two Tube workers while screaming 'I'm a doctor' because she did not want to miss the last train home on a Friday night.
1866
Unfortunately for the PSG faithful, the Swedish striker was suspended for the club's Champions League quarter-final first leg against Barcelona last week, but will be available for selection ahead of the return fixture.
1867
Cheryl Silvonek, 54, was fatally stabbed in the driveway of her Upper Macungie Township home early March 15, hours after taking Jamie Silvonek and the eighth-grader's boyfriend, Army Spc. Caleb Barnes, to a concert, according to court documents.
1868
Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi will go head-to-head once more in the race to be this season's top scorer in the Champions League – although Luiz Adriano threatens to spoil the party.
1869
Football Shirt Friday got into full swing as celebrities showed off their favourite kits in support of The Bobby Moore Fund for Cancer Research UK.
1870
instead was arrested at her home.
Thomas' home (above), which had been under surveillance by FBI for the past week, had American flags lined up outside .
1871
The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal . Circuit rejected the band's argument that the government's . refusal to grant a trademark violated its free speech rights.
1872
The SNP could win as many as 50 MPs in Scotland - allowing Mr Miliband to become Prime Minister even if he falls far short of a majority.
1873
Michael Vaughan has re-affirmed his interest in taking on the newly created role of director of England cricket - but only if he feels he can make a difference.
1874
The punishment will not take effect until May because Torpedo are already required to play their next two home games behind closed doors for a separate incident in which fans abused Zenit St Petersburg striker Hulk with monkey chants.
1875
However the tournament, held at Roland Garros and beginning on May 24, remains the Grand Slam with the lowest prize for the singles champion, lagging behind the Australian Open (£1.56m), Wimbledon (£1.7m) and the US Open (£2.03m).
1876
Winnie, 19, who was unveiled as one of the newest faces of fashion label Diesel earlier this year, was wearing a short and simple black and gold mini dress, which she accessorized with a pair of gold strappy heels.
Visit site .
1877
In his most recent gay rights decision for the court in . 2013, rejecting a legal definition of marriage limited to a man . and woman for purposes of federal benefits, Kennedy deplored . that U.S. law for making gay marriages 'unequal.'
1878
This may just be the best photo-bomb ever.
An adorable green sea turtle pulled off the ultimate photo-bomb, crashing this group photo in the Philippines .
1879
Lisa McMurray died at the Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, in 2009 after contracting rabies while working in South Africa .
(Source NHS)
1880
Ait-Benhaddou, a fortified mud-brick fortress city, is better known by Game of Thrones fans as Yunkai, while the stunning walled town of Essaouira transformed into Astapor, which played a vital role in the series three finale episode.
1881
Tindall was beaming from ear-to-ear having just seen Monbeg Dude, the horse whom he owns with James Simpson-Daniel and Nicky Robinson, run his heart out and wanted to be in place for when the old warrior, who was sent off unconsidered at 40/1, returned.
1882
The Spurs midfielder was spotted smooching with stunning girlfriend Sabrina Kvist Jensen in central London as he enjoyed a night off.
1883
An emotional David Raven reflected on a 'dream come true' after his last-gasp winner sent Inverness through to their first-ever William Hill Scottish Cup final at the expense of favourites Celtic.
1884
Researchers found several cave bear fossils, similar to the one above, along with scratches on the walls and signs of hibernation nests that suggest they were living in the cave alongside Neanderthals 200,000 years ago .
1885
A Fairdale town sign made it 28 miles to land between the towns of Belvidere and Harvard, while a sign from the Grubsteakers family restaurant in Rochelle was carried around 50 miles to a field near Harvard.
1886
Former Fortune 500 executive Robert Dellinger, 54, said in court during his sentencing Wednesday that he was not suicidal on the day he crashed into a couple's SUV, killing them instantly .
1887
Judy Scott, Walter's mother, was among the hundreds of mourners at the service today, arriving with other family members in a fleet of black limousines to the service for Scott, 50, who was a father of four.
1888
Louis Smith will represent Great Britain for the first time since his double Olympic medal-winning performance at London 2012 after being named in the squad for the European Championships.
1889
Lionel Messi should be fit to play in Barcelona's La Liga game at Celta Vigo on Sunday despite a scare over a possible foot injury, centre back Gerard Pique said on Wednesday.
1890
If you’re not with Three and are heading to a Feel At Home destination, operators’ bundles/ add-ons usually offer better value than their standard rates – though it depends on your usage levels.
1891
But the 41-year-old former Inter Milan and Parma right back, capped 25 times by Brazil, angered Massone again after Ceahlaul were beaten 2-0 by mid-table FC Botosani on Saturday.
1892
Mr Johnston's coffin was draped in the Australian and Kurdistan Democratic Union (PYD) party flags, and was carried by men and women dressed in khaki fatigues and scarves in PYD colours of red, yellow and green .
1893
'Colouring can offer a much needed distraction from the 'grown up' world': The 36-year-old illustrator (pictured) took eight months to complete the book and has explained that she finds drawing therapeutic .
1894
The commemoration was highlighting the effect of the battle on Europe, not the military campaign or the battle itself.
1895
PSG are weighing up options with Manchester United refusing to budge on Angel di Maria.
The French giants have been warned off Manchester United's Argentinian forward Angel di Maria (centre)
1896
Ed Balls this morning repeatedly refused to match the Tories' election pledge to increase NHS spending by £8billion a year.
1897
The popular TV series is based on the book of the same name, by Piper Kerman, about a woman who is sent to prison for a crime she committed in her youth.
1898
Fighter ace:
The Great Escape:
Bader’s life story has been the subject of 1956 film Reach for the Sky starring Kenneth More (pictured)
1899
Engineers had fitted the car with a 3.7-litre engine developing around 240bhp, giving it a 0-60mph time of nine seconds and a top speed of 140mph.
1900
The handy location means that whatever your whim, be it fish and chips or Michelin star dining, you can find something to satisfy at the foodie haven of Padstow or in the city of Truro.
1901
Morocco pulled out as hosts of the African Cup of Nations, which won by Ivory Coast in Equatorial Guinea .
1902
This week Samantha Cameron revealed her love of alternative group Poliça .
Poliça's record cover is illustrated with a photograph of a naked young woman, her hair and neck caked in blood.
1903
Stewart Regan insists Dave King faces a challenge to convince the SFA he is a 'fit and proper' person to be chairman of Rangers.
1904
For the past week Jackson's family and friends have been desperately trying to raise $80,000 needed to pay the hospital upfront by Tuesday night, so that he can undergo the operation on Wednesday morning.
1905
Alexis Sanchez's low shot squirmed agonisingly through the legs of Reading goalkeeper Adam Federici in extra time .
In former years, they might have buckled.
1906
She claims that being in close proximity to Ms Kunis, who lives in Hollywood with partner Ashton Kutcher and daughter Wyatt, has 'brought back all the bad memories' and she now needs therapy again.
1907
This is the shocking moment a worker risked his life by standing on top of a house jet washing a roof with what appears to be just a rope tied around him for safety.
1908
The dominant Easter Road side hit the post just before the break through Fraser Fyvie and again in the second half through fellow midfielder Scott Allan, with the Bairns rarely threatening.
1909
But Sherwood said: ‘Let's hope he's not laughing after Sunday.’
Aston Villa boss Tim Sherwood is hoping they can cause a FA Cup semi-final shock vs Liverpool on Sunday .
1910
Defending his father: Siwar al-Assad -  the son of Rifaat al-Assad and Bashar's cousin - told France Info radio his father had received funds since 1984 from 'states, leaders and friends abroad'
1911
Starbucks ran its European division - including the UK - through the Netherlands, but it paid just £1.9million in tax to the Dutch government, from a reported £300million profit .
1912
'There are a few bridges that still need to be rebuilt,' said Gatting, who had just penned a congratulation message to James Anderson, England's leading Test wicket-taker, as part of Slazenger's celebratory flag tour.
1913
'I'd record what hotel in Miami had the best pie to order on room service at midnight, which hotel in LA had the best pool or where the best beds are in Hong Kong.
1914
Paul Gascoigne's daughter Bianca was mugged by a gang on bikes in central London and had her phone which reportedly had private texts from the former England midfielder stolen.
1915
Yoko Ono has led the tributes to John Lennon's first wife Cynthia, posting this photo of the two women with their sons Sean and Julian.
1916
They will not want to lost Oblak and with foreign investment from the Wanda group in China the club does not have to sell it's best players – he's at Atletico for good.
1917
The father, 24, and other family members inside did not know that the toddler, who later died at University Medical Hospital, had gotten out of the house and on to the driveway, police said.
1918
Hassan Al Thawadi, Secretary General of the Supreme Committee, said: 'Unveiling the design of Al Rayyan stadium is another important step forward in our preparations to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
1919
New training will commence at Los Angeles International Airport, one of the airports named in the complaint filed by the American Civil Liberties Union.
1920
Digby was found severely dehydrated and cowering between two bins at a block of flats in North London last week.
'Love story':
1921
The conversion took place at the same time Homeden was being tuned into a block of flats providing the owners with a unique opportunity to buy some of the original features of the mansion and transfer them into the 740 square-metre garage residence.
1922
World No 2 Roger Federer has been some enjoying some downtime in the snow and posted a picture of himself posing with a snowball and his racket on his official Twitter account.
1923
Grumpy Britain: While we might sleep longer, we don’t feel as refreshed in the morning, according to results from users of the Sleep Cycle app .
1924
Terry was on top of him, taking the responsibility for marking the United forward away from his central defensive partner Gary Cahill for large sections of this clash.
1925
The 20-year-old England player has been made what manager Brendan Rodgers described as 'an incredible offer', believed to be £100,000-a-week, but negotiations have ended in stalemate.
1926
The man was later said to have been waving his entry ticket and shouting: 'I want a car.
Waving his entry ticket, it is believed the local man shouted: 'I want a car.
1927
As soon as she realized that she had won, the college student was left speechless with relief .
'There was nobody named Steve, they just got a kick out of waking us up [sic].'
1928
'In the first half we suffered a lot.
Mathieu praised Gerard Pique (right) after his impressive defensive display for Barcelona on Sunday .
1929
Protests on Saturday in Melbourne turned violent when anti-Islam and anti-racism groups clashed.
There was a strong police presence throughout the protest, which included riot police.
1930
He had his chance and did not take it.
Sam Allardyce is not the man to lead West Ham into their new exciting adventure at the Olympic Stadium .
1931
The World Cup has only ever been hosted by the major countries - Australia, New Zealand, France and Great Britain - although South Africa submitted an application for the 2017 event which was awarded jointly to Australia and New Zealand.
1932
Reading a statement on behalf of the whole family to the court, Mr Baker said Liberty's death had left their lives 'severely shattered' and that they felt 'utterly devastated'.
1933
Honouring the dead:
Family members stand next to the burning pyre of a family member at a cremation ground following the devastating earthquake .
1934
The Stratolaunch carrier aircraft's 385 feet (117 metres) wingspan compares to 320 feet for the Hughes H-4 Hercules and 225 feet for the Boeing 747-8.
1935
Barcelona midfielder Andres Iniesta could miss Saturday's La Liga game at home to Valencia after tests on Thursday confirmed he suffered a bruised pelvis in the 3-1 Champions League win at Paris St Germain.
1936
Neighbours in Huddersfield have reported issues with drains, street-lights, cracks in front doors, gaps between interior doors and the architrave, loose fence panels and a collapsed pipe under the street .
1937
The old adage may claim that a liar can not look you in the eye, but in truth liars often stare.
'Statistically it's a myth that a liar can't look you in the eye.
1938
Geckos have small hairs on their feet to enable them to scurry across ceilings and walls without falling off.
They were built under a microscope using tweezers.
1939
Historical researcher Michael Paulkovich has claimed that Jesus of Nazareth did not exist after being unable to find any verifiable mention of Christ in historical texts by 126 writers during the ‘time of Jesus’ from the first to third centuries.
1940
Rio Ferdinand believes Louis van Gaal's decision to return Wayne Rooney to his favoured attacking role has led to the Manchester United's upturn in performance levels.
1941
The boy was arrested on suspicion of preparing for an act of terrorism, while the girl was arrested on suspicion of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism.
1942
Families in the UK are more indebted than those in many other major developed nations, said the International Monetary Fund –
1943
Blundering boyfriend Jake Boys (left), 19, surprised his girlfriend Emily Canham (right), 18, with tickets to see One Direction play in Cardiff - but booked flights to the Republic of Ireland instead of Wales .
1944
Robert Butler was transported inside a shipping container from Bannister House in Providence, Rhode Island to the Eleanor Slater Hospital in Cranston on Sunday after his nursing home shut down amid financial difficulties.
1945
Despite her detour, Bretscher managed to be the first woman and third runner overall to finish the race with a time of 3:06:59, nearly 10 minutes ahead of the next woman to cross the finish line .
1946
One of the man stands at the water's edge with a fishing line in his hands and the waves lapping at his feet when suddenly he launches forward, dragged by the great weight of the creature who has attached itself to his fishing line.
1947
Ms Newman said James, who was 22 months old when he died, had fallen from the window as he was sat on the sofa, while she fed his younger brother who was then around six months old.
1948
Chris, Rachelle and Laurel all went to the ultrasound together .
We haven't had that time with the baby, then one day we're going to come home with a baby.
1949
Charles Kane of Spencerport, New York had communicated with the girl online after posting a Craigslist ad seeking a young girl for a daddy/daughter relationship and showed up to meet her at a local theater.
1950
Rafa Nadal got his clay court season off to a perfect, confidence-boosting start with a 6-2, 6-1 win over Frenchman Lucas Pouille in the Monte Carlo Masters.
1951
Jade Walters, 21, was shocked to discover the family she loaned her beloved pet horse Magic to had sold the animal (pictured right and left being ridden by Miss Walters) for £200 .
1952
Hazard scored and assisted in the same Premier League match for the seventh time, and looked like a man ready to rubbish the idea he was too tired to play a full 90 minutes for Belgium in midweek.
1953
The victims were having a barbecue at the club at the time and making flags with their team's colours for Sunday's anticipated match between Corinthians and Palmeiras.
1954
So, extending the age for routine mammograms would mean earlier diagnosis for those over 70 and more lives saved, the MPs said.
1955
Despite the fact that the UK has now met the controversial target to spend 0.7 per cent of national income on overseas aid, changes to Brussels accounting rules could bump up the bill even more.
1956
The election candidate is the second Lib Dem to go public with their HIV positive status, after Adrian Hyyrylainen-Trett, who is running for the party in Vauxhall, central London, explained that he got the virus intentionally as he embarked on a path of self 'annihilation'.
1957
An Oregon couple announced they are expecting a child in a rap video they made set to the theme  from '90s television sitcom 'The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.'
1958
The current partnership between Denayer and Virgil van Dijk has formed the foundation of Celtic’s bid for the Treble – a feat the club last achieved in 2001 when Boyd was skipper.
1959
Paris Saint-Germain star David Luiz's 'joker' status in the dressing room at Chelsea was well documented, and he teamed up with Ezequiel Lavezzi to play a prank on birthday boy Zoumana Camara.
1960
The hard-boiled egg is placed in a glass (left) before it is filled quarter of the way with tap water (right) He pops the hardboiled egg into a small tumbler glass before filling it a quarter of the way with water.
1961
The SNP is projected to win more than 40 seats in Scotland at the election, potentially leaving them holding the balance of power if Labour and the Tories both fall short.
1962
A nice, swanky hotel.
But Grand is still living on the streets, and he said the number one question people ask him is why he's still homeless.
1963
MATCH HIGHLIGHTS (SCROLL DOWN TO WATCH A VIDEO OF THE SIMULATION) 1st minute: GOAL!!!
HALF-TIME: Southern All-Stars 1-1 Northern All-Stars .
1964
The well-travelled former Everton and Manchester City midfielder – now manager of the newest MLS team Orlando City – responds with good humour.
1965
Kerr, who speaks with a Scottish accent, was jailed along with Christopher Moody for the murder of 43-year-old Maureen Comfort, whose body was found in a cupboard in her flat in Leeds.
1966
In a new study, one linguist argues that human language likely developed rapidly with people quickly using complex sentences that sound like our own.
1967
Selfie queen Karen Danczuk told LBC's Nick Ferrari (pictured) in Liverpool today that she aspired to be an MP – insisting she could relate to ordinary women unlike the current crop of female politicians .
1968
A Texas university that booked Matthew McConaughey as its May commencement speaker has broken the silence on the Texas-born actor's speaking fee.
1969
Both times she was treated with chemotherapy and went into remission with scans and blood tests coming back clear.
Each time she went into remission.
1970
Alex Rodriguez returned to the New York Yankees line-up for the baseball season's opening day following a 162-game suspension, batting seventh and serving as designated hitter.
1971
He was outwitted by Louis van Gaal when Manchester United visited in March — it was a mistake not to start Steven Gerrard — and Mario Balotelli’s signing has given Rodgers a problem that he has not been able to solve all season.
1972
More than two weeks into a short-term needle exchange program approved by Gov. Mike Pence, there are now 120 confirmed HIV cases and 10 preliminary positive cases tied to Scott County, about 30 miles north of Louisville, Kentucky .
1973
The man behind The Wicked Waffle Challenge, cafe owner Harry Harrison, 46, said: 'Most of the customers manage to eat half of The Wacky Waffle but they're so stuffed after that, they completely give up!
1974
On Saturday evening, NAC Breda manager Robert Maaskant let his fists do the talking as his side did just that against FC Dordrecht.
1975
Frankie Gavin (right) is set to be handed a shot at Kell Brook’s IBF welterweight world title at The O2 on May 30 .
But I've definitely got it in me to do it.
1976
During the Old Bailey hearing, Judge Cooke also expressed his 'unhappiness' at the failure of authorities to deport Byfield back to Jamaica when he attacked another woman with a chisel and was jailed for burglary in 2005.
1977
Filming also went on Wednesday after the extras walked off, with director Frank Coraci even posting a selfie of himself in front of the teepees the Native American extras found so offensive.
1978
Joshua Sweet, 20, admitted burglary and sexual assault and was given a three-year community order, ordered to do 150 hours unpaid work and must register as a sex offender for five years .
1979
The video captured by William Bird while out with his seven-year-old stepson Alex shows the £126million jets approaching RAF Lossiemouth in Moray, Scotland.
1980
More than 200 people tried to get into the court room for Thursday's hearing, which was for Guled Omar, 20; Adnan Abdihamid Farah, 19; Zacharia Yusuf Abdurahman, 19; and Hanad Mustafe Musse, 19.
1981
The couple, who does not wish to be identified, hired attorney Cathy Hale to sue James Evans the owner of Premiere Photos for allegedly providing a photo booth that printed, 'Poor N***** Party' on the bottom of the pictures.
1982
On the other hand, the AFL was permitted to use Anzac at its football games and on its merchandise as it donated to the RSL and Victoria Bitter was given the green light to use the term in its 'raise a glass' campaign.
1983
The FCA proposes a cap on payday lending, meaning that from January interest and fees on new loans, including those rolled over, must not exceed 0.8 per cent for each day of the amount borrowed.
1984
Claire, 44, has now enlisted the help of Susan Hepburn, who famously helped Lily Allen slim form a size 14 to an 8.
1985
Minutes before Joshua died, his 'on-off' girlfriend had sent his mother a message on Facebook, saying the teen was on a platform at Chapeltown station and that 'he was going to end it'
1986
A week before he left the Big Brother house in August 2006, Pete started an ill-fate relationship with fellow contestant Nikki Grahame but it quickly fizzled out.
1987
Speaking about the new campaign, This Morning presenter Holly, left, said: 'I absolutely loved shooting with Davina, she is such an iconic brunette'
1988
With the climax of the previous episode being the announcement of the pregnancy, it is quite a jump to the start of tomorrow’s instalment where Demelza, played by Eleanor Tomlinson, talks about being eight months pregnant.
1989
The husband of missing  woman Jessica Bialek has posted a heartfelt thank you on social media to everyone who helped bring his wife home.
1990
Sherwood celebrates after Villa beat Liverpool 2-1 in the FA Cup semi-final at Wembley on Sunday .
'I think The FA Cup final is a one-off day.
1991
Chelsea Clinton is opening up about motherhood, life in the public eye and why the United States needs a female president in a new interview with Elle .
Visit site .
1992
The theatrical wartime leader’s personal photographer Heinrich Hoffmann took many of the black and white photos for Hitler’s own use, but they ended up in the Hitler fanzine - Deutschland Erwache (Germany Awaken)
1993
Test Match Special have relented over their fierce opposition to Test Match Sofa, who covered matches off the television, and have employed one of the Sofa’s main commentators Dan Norcross for their county cricket team.
1994
Goalkeepers Thibaut Courtois and David de Gea and Liverpool midfielders Raheem Sterling and Philippe Coutinho complete the list of players - all aged 23 or under at the start of this season.
1995
Reading, meanwhile, have never won the FA Cup.
Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey (number 16) scores the winning foal against Hull in last year's FA Cup final .
1996
'I was thinking, god how is thing not falling?' Fire and Rescue Superintendent Kel McNamara told The Brisbane Times.
A tree stump on the hill prevented the house from falling further down, but authorities feared it was only a matter of time before it caused further damage to surrounding properties.
1997
Ms Gerhardt tells her students that by ignoring, the bully is being frozen in their tracks with nowhere to go.
'They just want to stir the pot,' she said.
1998
As the hearing was taking place, protestors gathered outside the Old Bailey with banners and flags to voice their disapproval at the trial.
1999
The Legion of Honour medals for the five veterans aged between 90 and 99 who are among the first of 2,800 living veterans who will receive the Legion of Honour in the months to come .
2000
Mr Cameron accused Ed Miliband and Ed Balls of having 'some brass neck' by attacking the Tories for failing the poor, adding: 'Don't you dare lecture us on poverty.'
2001
According to a family friend of Chan's, the pair wed inside the chapel at Besi Prison on Nusakambangan Island on Monday with immediate family present.
2002
Popular: Between 1996 and 2013 country went from having no baby girls called Harper - the name given to David and Victoria Beckham's daughter - to hundreds.
2003
The party believes 'not enough is being done to help the ailing pub trade' and claims to make supporting the industry a priority if in power.
2004
The 32-year-old plans to compete in both the Beijing World Championships and the 2016 Rio Olympics, which means that she was chose to incorporate training into her pregnancy right up until the final trimester.
2005
The kind of passing display Thiago delivered in Bayern's 6-1 win over Porto on Wednesday has been precisely what United have been missing.
2006
Walter's supporters and family say he was stopped for allegedly having a faulty center stop light at the bottom of his rear windscreen and this was wrong because the light was an accessory and both his obligatory stop lamps were functioning.
2007
It is currently on display at the National Museum of Denmark in Copenhagen as part of its animal-skin clothing collection.
2008
Former Italy forward Antonio Di Natale has described Alexis Sanchez as the best strike partner he's ever had and insisted the Arsenal forward is better than Neymar.
2009
3,000 μSv: Radiation from a mammogram .
A 10-hour flight over the North Atlantic, for instance, results in a radiation exposure of between 50 µSv to 100 µSv.
2010
Winston Reid says West Ham no longer suffer from the fear factor that came with facing Manchester City as they prepare to visit the Etihad Stadium on Sunday.
2011
As the car driver got out to survey the scene, the trucker ranted: 'F****** w*****. What the f*** are you doing coming over on me?
2012
Mr Fisher ruled that Thor died of brain damage as a result of attempts to free the baby’s head during delivery at the hospital (above)
2013
It has been almost 20 years since a 21-year-old Tiger Woods stormed the course at Augusta en route to his first victory at the Masters in 1997, and now there is a new American star on the block in the form of 2015 Masters champion Jordan Spieth.
2014
The collection  featured black satin and emerald crepe fabrics amongst the fishnet overlays and captured the on-trend netting style seen in sport luxe looks, but adding a sophisticated, edge to the smouldering models.
2015
Philippe Coutinho fired Liverpool into the FA Cup semi-finals and made it a night to remember for Jordan Henderson.
It’s the easy bit giving it to him.
2016
A Buffalo Fire Department official told WGRZ the second of three explosions sent one of the manhole covers 200 to 300 feet into the air.
2017
Couples need Facebook accounts and working webcams.
Guests are invited via Facebook, and once they log in their webcam streams are pasted onto a virtual body .
2018
The Pi Kappa Alpha chapter at USU decided to suspend Wray after his arrest  and then 'voluntarily ceased operations, other than general meetings'.
2019
The former England star has returned to Surrey to play championship cricket for the first time in two years, as he attempts to win back his England Test place.
2020
Bayern Munich central defender Medhi Benatia could miss both legs of their Champions League quarter-final against Porto due to a muscle injury.
2021
One of Britain's biggest babies has been born - to a mum who asked for NO pain relief.
Daniel Goldstone, Danielle Davies and their son Harley, who weighed 11lb 5oz at birth .
2022
Detectives have released a CCTV image of a woman they want to trace after the money was stolen in Ryemarket Shopping Centre, Stourbridge, West Midlands.
2023
The choice of bread is also a point for debate although 51 per cent pick white bread; a third (29 per cent) like wholemeal but only 13 per cent chooses sourdough, even fewer like rye (four per cent) and baguettes come bottom at only three per cent.
2024
Tens of thousands of savers who have had their pension released under today's new reforms are being tempted to put their money into property – and this surge of ‘silver landlords’ is likely to push up house prices .
2025
East on England ambulance revealed the bizarre calls as part of a list of 1,248 inappropriate call outs, saying that crew attended half of them, potentially putting lives at risk (file image)
2026
Dating from 1250, The Black Book of Carmarthen is the earliest surviving medieval manuscript written solely in Welsh, and contains some of the earliest references to Arthur and Merlin.
2027
Woods has not won a major since the US Open in 2008 and will be looking to get back to his best .
'There are not many people that have played the game of golf like he has.
2028
The victim said she was left feeling ‘vulnerable, apprehensive and anxious’ after she discovered someone had tried to steal her identity to sell her home, pictured .
2029
Sporting a claret and blue scarf in the press box at Villa Park, the former striker could not contain himself  as Christian Benteke fired home to make it 2-1 to the home side and was pictured leaping out of his seat.
2030
Naz Shah, the Labor party candidate standing against George Galloway in Bradford West, has previously told how she was forced into marriage age 15 - but Mr Galloway's party claims to have evidence this is untrue .
2031
Sponge Bobby the seal suffered horrific injuries after she was struck by a boat or a jet-ski on Monday .
'The jaw is seriously broken, possibly by a boat or a Jet ski.'
2032
Newcastle stand-in skipper Moussa Sissoko is facing disciplinary action after he was sent off following a reckless challenge on Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva during Monday's 2-0 defeat at Anfield.
2033
The boxer, who has not fought since he defeated Dereck Chisora in July 2012, also handed over his passport to authorities, and has been unable to leave the United Arab Emirates - forcing him to miss a mixed martial arts event in Birmingham at the weekend.
2034
Santiago Vergini (left) is keen to stay at Sunderland having played a key role in the Wearside outfit's 1-0 derby win over Newcastle United on Sunday.
2035
Although Herr Hitler was trumpeting Max Schmeling as a hero of the Third Reich following his knock-out victory over Joe Louis two years earlier, the German was anti-Nazi and remained so during World War II which was imminent at the time of the re-match.
2036
A completion schedule for the new stand is spring 2019, in time for that summer's World Cup and Ashes.
2037
The researchers studied mammoth remains found at Oimyakon in Siberia and Wrangel Island (shown above) This mammoth tusk on Wrangel Island in Russia belonged to one of the last  mammoths before they died out .
2038
And that's exactly what they get with the 223ft Explorer, which comes with its own helipad, infinity pool and plenty for space for supercar and jetski storage.
2039
‘We’ll try our best to win the league now - and next season we’ll try to win the Treble.
Everybody is down but we are professionals and we need to focus on Dundee. ‘
2040
Waleed Aly apologised for the embarrassing mistake, admitting 'we stuffed up' later on during the program after the mistake was flagged by gobsmacked Twitter users.
2041
A 'do not resuscitate' order is meant to stop a patient suffering unnecessarily where their lives are likely to be extended for only a short period of time.
2042
Det Insp Ben McDonald, of the Bradford District Safeguarding Unit, said: 'It was clear that Allison felt he could cheat justice by fleeing the country and escaping to Australia.
2043
Soothe sunburned skin with ice cubes made of aloe vera or by soaking a cloth in black or green tea .
Soothe sunburns with aloe vera ice cubes .
2044
Was at: Liverpool, Chelsea (2007-15) Now at Atletico Madrid on loan from AC Milan (v Real Madrid, Wed) Was part of the Chelsea squad that won the Champions League in 2012, scoring against Barcelona in a famous semi-final at the Nou Camp.
2045
Loss of baby boomers: The number of UK deaths per will rise by 20 per cent over the next two decades, as funeral costs have already risen by 80 per cent over the past ten years .
2046
'Almost immediately after spacecraft separation, a series of telemetry problems were detected with the Progress 59,' Navias said during a televised broadcast from Nasa's Mission Control .
2047
The 7-minute call would reignite a controversy focused on those kids and their scientist parents, Danielle and Alexander Meitiv, who espouse the hands-off parenting style.
2048
Lunchtime outside:
The Met Office said high pressure this week will bring dry weather - with temperatures staying reaching the high teens .
2049
Although he is fond of his whole collection Ian definitely has a favourite: Annabel, a doll who he believes is haunted by the spirit of a seven-year-old girl who drowned while playing with her brother.
2050
But for Nasr Bitar, it was his time to shine.
'Time to shine': Nasr Bitar saw taking the perfect selfie with Google Street View as a chance to 'shine' Tracked:
2051
This year, instead, once the actual race was run, all roads led to the Emirates and a Sky Sports team all set to act as pacemaker for the afternoon.
2052
Most of the compensation consisted of stock valued at $100 million.
Schmidt also pocketed a $1.25 million salary, a $6 million bonus and perks valued at nearly $1 million.
2053
This then forces the Mercedes to wait 10 minutes in the queue like everybody else before moving back into the correct lane as they approach a roundabout.
2054
I love this kind of folklore as long as it really is part of the local culture and not just put on for tourists.
Traditional Bulgarian national costume worn by villagers in the Pirin mountains .
2055
Illinois State associate coach Torrey Ward, meat processing business owner Scott Bittner and bar owner Terry Stralow have been confirmed as among the dead when the Cessna 414 crashed near Bloomington, Illinois, shortly after midnight on Tuesday.
2056
Mr Cameron said he understood why people were thinking hard about who to vote for and said he hoped in the end they would turn to him.
2057
At two kilometres in circumference and protected by an imposing 12-metre wall, the Ming Dynasty's 'Martial City' had a reputation that struck fear into opposing armies.
2058
Six people on board were forced to jump onto the runway to escape the flames on board .
The video shows people leaping from the plane before a fire engine races to put out the flames.
2059
Friends of a British backpacker who drowned during a diving trip on the Great Barrier Reef claim staff deleted photos that were taken shortly before the doomed young woman left the boat.
2060
A devoted Chinese father is desperately trying to raise money to pay his son's huge medical bills by dressing up a horse and begging people to ride him.
2061
Joyce Cox was just days away from celebrating her fifth birthday when she was strangled to death on her way home from school in Cardiff on September 28, 1939.
2062
But Marseille capitulated in the final six minutes as Jordan Ayew scored his second from a fine solo run before Mathias Autret secured Lorient's first win in five games after home goalkeeper Steve Mandanda had parried his first effort.
2063
The bodies of about 60 soldiers of all nationalities are found each year, buried across Europe, and there are around 187,000 graves from the First World War that bear the ‘Known Unto God’ inscription.
2064
12:45pm: Southampton v Aston Villa (BT Sport)
4pm: Manchester United v Arsenal (Sky Sports) Monday, May 18 . 8pm: West Bromwich Albion v Chelsea (Sky Sports)
2065
Shining a bright infrared laser on the mouse’s tongue caused different parts of it and ‘flavour molecules’ to fluoresce.
2066
Bianca Gascoigne, the daughter of troubled ex-footballer Paul Gascoigne, who was mugged by a gang and had her phone taken, which was reportedly full of private texts from her father .
2067
Mexican restaurant Chipotle has decided to tap into the $70 billion food delivery market by teaming up with an app to bring burritos straight to customers' doors.
2068
Jamie Carragher believes Brendan Rodgers is still the right man to lead Liverpool forward after a season with no trophies and a likely finish outside the top four.
2069
A hiker exploring Chile's natural wonders got the shock of his life on Wednesday afternoon when a volcano erupted before his eyes.
'Wow':
2070
Officers investigating the Rio de Janeiro snack bar reportedly found boxes containing the frozen carcasses of dozens of dogs (pictured)
2071
John Carver says he has the hardest job in football as head coach of Newcastle United with thousands of supporters planning to boycott Sunday's home match against Spurs.
2072
The 25-year-old royal, who has been living in the US for a year now, looked glamorous as she arrived at the For The Love Of Cinema dinner in New York City on Thursday during the Tribeca Film Festival.
2073
Stephanie Scott, 26, was last seen at a Woolworths supermarket at Leeton, 550km west of Sydney, on Easter Sunday afternoon, her fiancé Aaron Leeson-Woolley told Fairfax.
2074
And hours before the Scot was sacked he talked up Wigan’s chances of Championship survival, despite overseeing a 10th home defeat in 13 matches.
2075
Meanwhile, Chen Youjun a specialist in Tibetan mastiff photography, said: 'The rapid pace of urbanisation across China has made more and more people now realise Tibetan mastiffs are not animals well-suited to city living.'
2076
Livingston boss Mark Burchill believes heartbroken midfielder Darren Cole wants to play in Sunday's Petrofac Cup final despite the game coming just a week after the tragic death of his cousin in America.
2077
Sandra Ng, 19 (left), Campbell's girlfriend, was sentenced to 23 months in state prison for her role in the shocking assault last year, while another defendant Jennifer Pratt, 40, is awaiting trial .
2078
Scroll down for video .
Four Seasons have also made the private jet, including the staff and crew, available for private charter .
2079
'So it's a missed opportunity but I think if you had offered a chance to win a double to a young rookie manager who had not managed anywhere near this level, a lot of people didn't know who he was, I think he would have taken that.
2080
DEF - Antonio Valencia (MANCHESTER UNITED vs Aston Villa) - 7.5 .
Mesut Ozil produced silky touches and a brilliant free-kick for the second which put Arsenal in control .
2081
As a player, McNeill won nine consecutive league championship titles, seven Scottish Cups, six League Cups and, of course, he was the first British team captain to lift the European Cup in 1967.
2082
The girl was interviewed by the Bexar County Sheriff’s Office Criminal Investigations Division last month, according to the arrest warrant statement.
2083
He said crews would search through the night.
 'They were scattered anywhere from Dauphin Island Bridge all the way out into Mobile Bay and across to Fort Morgan.
2084
Tottenham will subsidise Emmanuel Adebayor's £100,000-per-week wages to finally get rid of the striker this summer.
They are the reason I'am here today.
2085
Eva Kor and her twin sister Miriam were among the 1,500 twins (amounting to 3,000 children) Dr. Josef Mengele experimented on in Auschwitz .
2086
Midfielder Cheikhou Kouyate has warned West Ham must be ready to face a 'wounded animal' at Manchester City on Sunday, but will be ready to inflict more pain on Manuel Pellegrini's men.
2087
The plane, carrying 278 passengers, was met by six police cars on landing, with officers seen entering the aircraft and removing the passengers.
2088
A British marathon runner has become the first blind athlete to complete the 'toughest footrace on Earth', which saw him run almost 160 miles across the Sahara Desert.
2089
Scroll down for video .
The 918 Spyder is concluding a promotional tour of Australia that showcases the companies E- hybrid models.
2090
It is hoped the expedition will raise £250,000 for the Lewis Moody Foundation as well as the Royal Marines Charitable Trust .
2091
It is equally important to consider multiple chronic mouth ulcers as a symptom of bowel disease, as both coeliac disease and Crohn's disease can first present as mouth ulcers.
2092
’ The manager of Powell's bookstore in Portland (pictured), was forced to clean up Jack's vomit - but said his apology letter and gift card made her day .
2093
Brazilian star Rivaldo comes in second with 22 goals, followed by Patrick Kluivert (20), Luis Enrique (19) and Samuel Eto'o (16).
Barcelona 4 Arsenal 1 (2009-10 quarter-final, second leg)
2094
Roger Federer spent less than one hour on court in his Monte Carlo opener with a 6-2, 6-1 win over Jeremy Chardy.
2095
It is currently £113.
It is currently £113 .
The SNP have demanded an end to ‘austerity’ and for the Trident nuclear missile system to be scrapped .
2096
Vale was soon cooing and laughing with delight - but she wasn't any closer to going to sleep.
'It worked on Mike [Feldman],' she said jokingly of her husband.
2097
Maitland, who has 15 caps for Scotland and toured with the British & Irish Lions in 2013, picked up the injury when the Warriors lost at Bath in the European Rugby Champions Cup and was subsequently ruled out of the Six Nations.
2098
When paramedic Michael Newman returned to the vehicle, he found Hargreaves and the girl kissing on the stretcher.
Hargreaves told him they were 'trying to have sex'.
2099
Much of the comic book film, Avengers: Age of Ultron, was shot in Seoul and the country's culture ministry agreed to cover a third of filming costs in the city on the agreement the Republic of Korea is shown as 'high tech' and 'modern'.
2100
Mr Balls said a cut in the top rate to 40p would save someone earning £1 million a year £340,000 over the course of the next Parliament, while someone with income of £5 million would get a total tax cut of £1.94 million over the five-year period.
2101
Pupils also wrote 'Anti-Gay' on the hands along with a cross as part of their protests apparantly a reaction to a Day Of Silence events for bullied LBGT students the previous day .
2102
The skull is more than 95 per cent complete bone, is 9.2ft (2.8 metres) long, 5.2ft (1.6 metres) high and 4.6ft (1.4 metres) wide.
2103
Ms Sumner, left, was researching Soviet rule from 1917 to 1921 as part of her PhD under Professor Sarah Badcock of Nottingham University, right, who is acknowledged as one of Britain's leading Russian experts .
2104
A new paper in the British Journal of Urology International is based on the results of scientists who reviewed 20 different studies of penis size, including 15,521 measurements of penises from around the world.
2105
Justin Bieber was reportedly put in a chokehold by security and booted out of the Coachella music festival on Sunday after trying to gain entry to Drake's gig, pictured here at the event on Friday .
Visit site .
2106
On Saturday - the day which English and drama teacher Ms Scott was set to marry her fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley - a memorial was held to honour the late bride-to-be.
2107
The data  also revealed that the number of atheists, agnostics and those who are religiously unaffiliated will  decline from 16 per cent of the world's population to 13 per cent in the next four decades.
2108
We live in a modern world of instant news where Test cricket seems something of a throwback but there is still great satisfaction to be taken from a slow burner.
2109
Defending champion Mark Selby will play Norwegian Kurt Maflin at the Crucible on Saturday .
Marco Fu v Jimmy Robertson .
Mark Williams v Matthew Stevens .
2110
Mikki Nicholson, who was a national Scrabble champion, stepped in front of a train, on November 7 last year after suffering daily verbal abuse in Carlisle, Cumbria.
2111
Ms Sparks said: 'She went on to say that due to some children not looking where they were going, there had been incidents of bumped heads.
2112
A cop ordered a woman in this Ohio shopping center to sit in her hot car this month after officers discovered her dog locked inside her Nissan Sentra as she shopped in Walmart .
2113
Miralem Pjanic finished off a swift counter-attack for Roma in the 25th minute and goalkeeper Morgan de Sanctis did the rest - saving shot after shot by Napoli in the second half.
2114
The Cold War-era jet has a maximum range of 650 miles - which means it could attack the Falklands Islands and return to Argentina without the need to refuel.
2115
Sadly the black number isn't available to buy, but if you click right, you can bag the dress in blue or white on Mulberry's website (if they have your size left).
2116
Vanessa Kennard, one of the nurses caring for Mr Clarke at the West Kent Neuro-rehabilitation unit at Sevenoaks Hospital, has been suspended from her role for six months after being charged with misconduct .
2117
The couple met a year ago after a mutual friend introduced them to each other, and they quickly fell in love.
Guo said to his bride-to-be: 'I love you - marry me.
2118
The confused bird was seen swimming in the Grand Union canal earlier this month after apparently flying into London along the Thames.
2119
Pictured (from left): Pregnant surrogate Becky Harris, Mr Lee with son Phoenix Harris and his surrogate mother Bex Harris (behind), Mr Harris holding daughter Willow-Star  and her surrogate mother Viktoria Ellis (right)
2120
But the 35-year-old Northern Irishman added: 'Despite the fact that my record round here is not great, I do love this golf course.
2121
'So it's frustrating that people keep talking about that, because if you're taking wickets, why does it matter if you're bowling 87 or 93 miles an hour.
2122
Cook, who fought for Team GB at Beijing 2008, felt he was overlooked for London 2012 - when Lutalo Muhammad, who was selected instead, won bronze - because he decided to quit the British programme in 2011.
2123
The US national 'speedcubing' champion was at an official Rubik's Cube event in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, when he shaved 0.3 of a second off the record.
2124
He could be a kicker in American football – he’d be very good, I think.
Should both teams win their remaining league games, an away win at Pittodrie would finish the race.
2125
It was the 2005 Community Shield when he first put Arsenal to the sword, lashing two goals past Jens Lehmann in a 2-1 victory at the Millennium Stadium before scoring the decisive goal in a 1-0 victory in the Premier League three weeks later.
2126
An Iranian news agency considered to be close to Iran hard-liners claims that Rezaian (pictured with his wife Yaganeh Salehi) has been accused of 'espionage' and 'acting against national security'
2127
Neighbor Luis Urbina said the crash woke him up.
Both neighbors and Carlos' family said they searched the wreckage for the couple and were able to locate the two .
2128
The 1954 Bentley R-Type Continental Fastback was estimated to sell for around £200,000 by auctioneers but ended up being sold for £739,212 - a record for the auction house.
2129
Kate and Gerry McCann have reportedly been awarded £360,000 in damages from an ex-Portuguese detective who wrote a book claiming their daughter Madeleine had died in an accident instead of being abducted .
2130
Migrants on a coast guard boat arrive at the Sicilian Porto Empedocle harbor, Italy on Monday .
 The total rescued since Friday has now reached 8,480, from more than 40 boats .
2131
In an attempt to make the Labour leader look cool, Twitter users have begun editing his face on to the body of famous men, including Daniel Craig as James Bond in movie Casino Royale .
2132
A professor in New York invited her 11-year-old autistic son to one of her classes, during which he got up on a chair and drew the world map from memory.
2133
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has heaped praise upon Loic Remy after the striker scored his second consecutive winner in the 2-1 victory over Stoke on Saturday.
2134
Michael Phelps is aiming to compete in a fifth Olympics next year in Rio, although the 18-time Olympic champion won't swim in the world championships this summer.
2135
He ruled earlier this week that Stiviano must now turn over the keys to the $1.8 million house and pay Shelly Sterling some $800,000 that her husband showered on the younger woman in gifts.
2136
A Bethune-Cookman spokeswoman Keisha Boyd said that the university administration had 'heard rumors' about hazing and that Volusia County Beach Safety Ocean Rescue is investigating the student's death, according to the Daytona Beach News-Journal.
2137
Newcastle Crown Court (pictured) heard one of Mrs Rylance's accounts held just £1,000 at the time of her death in July 2013 .
2138
Stefan told WTHR: 'It is an incredible feeling.
Another high school student, Harold Ekeh of Long Island, was also accepted into all eight Ivy League schools.
2139
Indian media reported that the Boeing 777-300ER first diverted to Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport to refuel about eight hours into its flight from southern China to Addis Ababa.
2140
Mr Noble said there may have been a settlement built on the land behind the fort, although as the Picts largely built their homes from wood, it would be hard to find many remains.
2141
At yesterday's hearing, prosecutor Joanne Barker told Judge Paul Glenn that Revins was caught by undercover police alongside fellow drug dealer Nathan Davenport, 37.
2142
Experienced and successful authors will reveal how they launched their publishing careers — and, with a keen eye on the digital future of publishing, some bestselling Kindle Direct Publishing authors will talk about their experiences in the vast and flourishing e-book market.
2143
The unnamed 20-year-old woman was driving on the I-25 in Weld County, north of Denver, when her window shattered and she felt bleeding from both sides of her neck.
2144
Mr Philp fronted Brisbane Magistrates Court on Friday and pleaded guilty to wilful damage of police property.
2145
The Kuznetsov is the largest carrier in the Russian Navy, built it 1985 it carries 18 fighter jets, 17 anti-submarine helicopters and 1,690 crew .
2146
Jamie, from Glasgow, added that it ‘felt really cool because we were making history’ and Reuben, from North Yorkshire, said: ‘Being there for the very first time cameras have been allowed inside MI5 was an awesome experience and I loved doing it.’
2147
Stoll had 17 points in 73 games this season and was a member of the Kings' Stanley Cup championship teams in 2012 and 2014.
She added: 'But no we are fine!
2148
She also suffered 50 per cent bone loss because of untreated gum disease, wrongly placed implants, and teeth that had fractured in half .
2149
A 3-year-old girl in Ontario recently received a donated liver after her sicker twin sister was chosen ahead of her to receive part of their adopted father's liver early this year .
2150
One of a kind: A nail house is pictured at a construction site which will be developed into a new apartment zone in Hefei, Anhui province.
2151
A bidding war is set to break out over Dybala, who is being tracked by Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal, Inter Milan, Juventus and PSG.
I want €40m (£29m) for him but I asked Nasser for €50m (£36m).
2152
Fergal O'Brien is daring to dream what might be at Aintree on Saturday as he insists last year's fourth Alvarado is going into the race in better shape this time around.
2153
Trotting into Aintree in a collection of floral, flamboyant and eye-catching numbers, thousands of female race-goers displayed their indomitable spirit for the occasion.
2154
'I didn't look in the mirror for weeks,' she said.
Mack, 23, claims Koppenhaver, 33, became abusive four months into their one-year relationship, which started fast.
2155
Luis Suarez scored Barcelona's 1,000th goal in European competition as the Catalan giants claimed a 3-1 victory over PSG on Wednesday night.
2156
Burns said she was a 20-year-old Las Vegas casino worker in 1970 when she met Cosby.
Marcella Tate (center) said she met Cosby in Chicago in 1975, when she was a 27-year-old model.
2157
But Mr Clegg will claim the Lib Dems are now ‘the party of education’ and the school funding commitment is firm because it will be on the front page of today’s manifesto of pledges.
2158
When another player at the press conference as asked about Badgers player Frank Kaminsky (right), Harrison (left) covered his mouth and said 'f*** that n****' - but his microphone still projected the comment.
2159
The most inflammatory foods are deep-fried foods and high-sugar foods such as desserts and sweet drinks, so you should avoid those.
Supplements:
2160
Victoria Police arrested  35-year-old Abijath Desikan following the 7.5 hour siege at Riverside Quay.
A woman who lives in the area said the scene felt like 'a movie'.
2161
The eccentrically-disguised man entered a branch of the U.S Bank in the city of Santa Cruz at around 3pm last Friday and handed the cashier a note demanding money.
2162
Lees, who joined last summer from Leeds, has been a key figure and like Westwood is among the contenders for the club's Player of the Year award.
2163
It was the new Late Show host James Corden who first put Gary in touch with Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein when he was looking for someone to write the score for his musical Finding Neverland.
It's not goodbye: Jason Orange shocked Take That fans around the world when he quit the chart-topping band last September but he hasn't said goodbye to them forever .
2164
Horrific CCTV footage has emerged of a husband smashing his dancer wife's head into concrete paving 11 times then shooting her in the face five times.
2165
Here's why: 'The first thing that our mind assesses when it come to judging the age of the person is shape of their face,' Dr Kubicka says, 'Our faces change with time from a triangle (high cheek bones and defined jaw line) to a square with a heavy jaw line and double chin.
2166
It is believed the rubber drain cover had been kicked out of position in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire on Monday afternoon - and within hours, the accident occurred.
2167
‘She knew that Mr Lewis was not the biological father of Charlie, or was reckless as to whether he was the biological father, or did not believe he was the biological father.
2168
Queen Letizia met with the families during a memorial service in Barcelona today to remember the 50 Spanish victims who died .
2169
Ed Miliband admitted that in the past his party had been 'too timid' about making clear that for communities to live together they must use a shared language .
2170
Now one of the students involved in this verbal attack has been accused, along with two others, of forcing a special-needs student to drink urine from a toilet while holding his crotch at Greece Athena High School in upstate New York.
2171
The legal wife of Lyle Jeffs - brother of Warren Jeffs and current leader of the polygamous Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints - has officially filed for divorce from her husband in Utah, citing rape and illegal practices within the Mormon sect.
2172
Daniel Ricciardo practices with a martial artist at Guyi Garden ahead of this weekend's Chinese Grand Prix .
2173
Death row: Kent Sprouse gunned down Ferris Police Officer Marty Steinfeldt, 28, at a gas station outside of Dallas before also shooting dead a customer, Pedro Moreno, 38, in 2002 .
2174
Witnesses captured footage of NSW Fire and Rescue crews working to put out the flames as thick smoke spewed out over the airport's car park.
2175
Exactly 25 years ago, the 15-year-old AP left his home in Moneyglass, County Antrim, to head to the respected but strict regime of an apprentice jockey’s life at the stable of Jim Bolger in County Kilkenny.
2176
Findings also showed that only half of shoppers were happy with prepared food offerings as grocers including Wegmans, Publix, Costco, Whole Foods and Fresh Market were considered standouts in this category.
2177
The case made international headlines and Stan was known as 'the Girl in the Box' after it was revealed that she was forced into a coffin-like structure for 23 hours a day during for much of her captivity.
2178
Vladimir Putin appeared on Russian TV today like you have never seen him before - leading to questions that he has had cosmetic surgery to get rid of the bags under his eyes, wrinkles and make his face more chiseled .
2179
New low:
 The mortgage market has reached a ‘watershed’ moment with the launch of the first five-year fixed rate below 2 per cent .
2180
West Indies ended this fourth day on 202 for two, a lead of 37, with Brathwaite unbeaten on 101, and the only winner on day five looks likely to be the lifeless pitch unless England make big inroads with the second new ball.
2181
England women’s captain Charlotte Edwards received her CBE from the Queen on Tuesday.
England women's cricket captain Charlotte Edwards received her CBE from the Queen on Tuesday .
2182
Nasa has selected a variety of companies to work on projects to create advanced space technologies, including a faster method of propulsion known as Vasimr (illustrated), which could apparently get to Mars in a matter of weeks, not months .
2183
Drug company Novartis has been accused of trying to block trials aimed at promoting a ‘cheap, safe and effective’ treatment for sight loss which would save the NHS around £102million a year .
2184
A man identified as Felix David, 24, was shot by police in New York City at a halfway house for the mentally ill in the East Village (pictured)
2185
Annual mammograms starting at 40 years old have long been considered standard for preventive care, because cancer is easier to treat if detected early.
2186
David Cameron’s bar is studded with blueberry pieces, Ed Miliband’s comes in a red raspberry flavour and the Nick Clegg edition is filled with chunks of honeycomb.
2187
US authorities suspected that a British man accused this week of causing the 2010 'flash crash' was making illicit trades back in 2009 it's been revealed, with experts expressing shock that it took six years for charges to be brought.
2188
The manmade cavern named the Caverne du Pont-d'Arc has been built a few miles from the original site in Vallon-Pont-D'arc in Southern France and contains 1,000 painstakingly-reproduced drawings as well as around 450 bones and other features.
2189
The international designer and her husband carefully renovated the property to be 'very sympathetic and in keeping with the period style, while still keeping it contemporary', said selling agent Mr Collier .
2190
The sleeves, seen wrapped around their tyres, are what allow the group to control their slide while drifting.
2191
Crew members from the Chiswick RNLI station came to the assistance of the Oxford crew and their cox, who were training for the Boat Race which - along with the men's race - takes place on Saturday, April 11.
2192
Michael Munday has taken to social media to post love notes dedicated to the love of his life, Melissa, declaring that he needs the support of the public in order to win her back .
2193
Shatnawi kept his eyes on the ball, leaned back, raised his right leg and kicked it over his head, one would imagine in an unorthodox attempt to send the ball over his goal and out for a corner.
2194
Adding insult to injury: Wikileaks founder Julian Assange (pictured here speaking via video link at the Commonwealth Law Conference in Glasgow on Wednesday) has said that the information leaked belongs online because it shows the inner workings of an international company .
2195
Mary, 43, treated her three youngest children, Princess Isabella, seven, and twins Princess Josephine and Prince Vincent, four, to a day out at a farm in Kirke Hyllinge, a village in Zealand.
2196
Second-half goals by Mohamed Yattara and Alexandre Lacazette helped Olympique Lyonnais go top of Ligue 1 with a 2-0 home win against Bastia on Wednesday.
2197
Of the 10 Premier League clubs active on Weibo, six – United, City, Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham, feature in the top 20 most followed clubs in China.
2198
Brendan Rodgers has met with Raheem Sterling to remind the him of his responsibilities as a role model - but the Liverpool starlet has escaped club punishment after being pictured holding a shisha pipe.
2199
Andros Townsend enjoyed silencing the critics with his wonder strike for England, saying naysayers like Paul Merson provided the perfect motivation for him in Italy.
2200
But before the night was over people were dragging their kids out of line, demanding refunds on the books and stormed out of the store in disgust.
2201
Carrick has played for England for 13 years, 310 days - while Sir Stanley Matthews reached 22 years, 228 days .
vs Poland, October 15, 2013 .
2202
Brown then had the honour of lifting the Lennart Johansson trophy as Chelsea followed in the footsteps of Barcelona last year.
2203
And over half said they wish there were more ways to charge their phone in public places – rising to over 70 per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds.
2204
Her mother, Moira, was angry they had to 'beg' for a year and a half to get a scan and is now hoping specialists can give the family an exact diagnosis of Kelly's condition.
2205
Mrs Miliband said she first met the Labour leader at a dinner party hosted by a mutual friend - understood to be the former BBC economics editor - who Ed was secretly in a relationship with .
2206
It was announced today that starting Friday, Peterson would be able to participate in all scheduled activities with the Minnesota Vikings.
2207
And while it was a long time before she truly achieved that state, she now confesses that she knows the times in her life when she was at her skinniest, were also the periods when she was the most unhappy.
2208
For them that means a shower.
Flatman says picking the likes of Danny Cipriani is key to England bringing in new fans during the tournament .
2209
More than 1,000 crimes have been created by the Coalition in a frenzy of law-making – including a ban on washing clothes in Trafalgar Square.
2210
Vincent Kompany believes that if Manchester City are able to pick up a valuable three points away to rivals Manchester United, then they can help 'rectify' a disappointing season.
2211
Peter Barnett, 43, is said to have caused a loss of £23,000 to Chiltern Railways over a two-and-a-half year period.
Barnett was released on unconditional bail.
2212
'I was surprised to see it was Bosch taking it because I though it was in Alex Goode's range,' Saracens director of rugby Mark McCall said.
2213
We monitored that, but with the backmarkers and the lapping cars those brake temperatures went through the roof and we had a brake-by-wire failure on both cars in the same corner - Lewis on the last lap, Nico on the penultimate lap.
2214
The New York Post reports that Jerry Hugel, 83, his wife Marianne Hugel, 80, died along with 70-year-old neighbor Gloria Greco, and friend Walter Vondthadden, 76, in an apparent carbon monoxide poisoning, possibly caused by a car left running in a garage.
2215
Investigators have released these images of football fans who were pictured carrying the wounded on stretchers and tending to others at the 1989 Hillsborough disaster .
2216
Only just over half (53 per cent) know the Duke of Wellington led the British forces, while one in seven believe that it was the French who were victorious in 1815.
2217
Cellphone footage appears to show a Minneapolis police officer threatening to break the legs of a teenager who claims he was pulled over because of racial profiling.
2218
Manchester City playmaker David Silva gives the thumbs up after returning to training on Tuesday .
The West Ham midfielder has apologised to Silva via his Twitter acount .
2219
Jeremy Beard, the chairman of GB Taekwondo, said in a statement: 'Having secured his place at the upcoming European Games, we are naturally disappointed that Aaron Cook does not wish to represent Great Britain in Baku, nor at the Olympic Games in Rio.
2220
Johnny Depp and Amber Heard touched down in Brisbane Tuesday morning local time, putting on a show of unity amid rumors of marital woes just two months after they tied the knot.
Visit site .
2221
CCTV footage from the hotel shows the thief in a purple top reaching into the pocket of Mr Ogden, 80, while her accomplice attempts to block the view of Mrs Ogden, 78.
2222
Tortoises can't swim, said Florida Wildlife officials this week after people tried to throw baby tortoises in the ocean to protect them from beach predadtors .
2223
Nicolas Diaz (Ieft), 81, allegedly stabbed to death his granddaughter's ex-boyfriend, Kevin Rivera, (right), after the couple started arguing following their daughter's first birthday party on Sunday .
2224
Von Teese, real name Heather Renée Sweet, will team up with burlesque teacher Catherine D'Lish, to offer ranch guests a striptease workshop.
2225
Manchester United and Liverpool target Danny Ings insists his aim for next season is to play and develop wherever he ends up.
2226
Nothing will stop Russia from hosting the best World Cup in the tournament's history in 2018, FIFA president Sepp Blatter said on a visit to one of the host venues Sochi on Monday.
2227
Jason Warnock, 29, came forward Thursday and identified himself as the mystery man who rescued a driver in distress Wednesday morning in Lewiston, Idaho .
2228
Jose Mourinho has launched a fresh verbal attack on Arsenal, branding their 11 year wait for the Premier League title as 'boring'.
2229
Police believe the woman went to the home of 23-year-old Fleming in Anderson, 180 miles away, posing as a Child Protective Services employee and convinced Fleming to come with her to Gary.
2230
Matt Giteau (Toulon): Can operate at No 10 or centre.
Ex-Toulon lock Nick Kennedy considers his former team-mate Giteau one the best players in the world .
2231
Under pension rules, most NHS workers can claim the retirement benefits only if they work for 16 hours or less per week for a month after ‘retiring’ for 24 hours.
2232
Mr Holpin and his family are infamous in the former mining town of Ebbw Vale, where locals have launched petitions to stop him moving into their street.
2233
The British royal, who is currently working in New York, showcased her hipster style for the second day in a row wearing a black bowler hat, black leather top and a black and cream miniskirt.
Visit site .
2234
Positioned eight miles from the nearest road, the Indian village of Supai is concealed at the bottom of Havasu Canyon, in the heart of the Havasupai Nation reservation.
2235
Green, capped 12 times, endured a famously turbulent time as England goalkeeper, with his calamitous error in England’s 1-1 draw with USA at the 2010 World Cup a particular lowlight.
2236
22 per cent of all marine families and 53 per cent of all genera - an estimated 76-84 per cent of all species. Cretaceous-Tertiary mass extinction - 66 million years ago .
2237
Manchester City defender Bronze is the current holder of the Women's PFA Players' Player of the Year award following her standout performances during the 2013-14 Women’s Super League.
2238
This is the dramatic moment robbers who raided a cash and carry were arrested while running along a busy motorway after a dramatic chase which saw them ram two police cars.
2239
Conchita van der Waal, pictured, offered a range of 'kinky' sexual services to clients from €450 an hour .
It is not clear when she was employed by either institution.
2240
Former BBC Director General Sir Hugh Greene, pictured, said Mr Wilson feared broadcasting Steptoe and Son on the 1964 election night could end up costing the Labour Party 20 seats - they won the election by four .
2241
Bishop said she tried to plead with the man when he ordered her to hand over all the money in the cash register, but when that didn't work she took action.
2242
The Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll showed Hillary Clinton in a close race with U.S. Senator Rand Paul (pictured), the Kentucky Republican who declared his candidacy on Tuesday .
2243
Fox resigned from the Cabinet in 2011 after Boulter revealed details of how Fox’s close friend, businessman Adam Werritty, accompanied him on overseas trips as Defence Secretary.
2244
Barcelona won 3-1 on aggregate when the sides met in the semi-finals of the 2011 Champions League .
Mar 2, 2013 - La Liga, Real Madrid 2-1 Barcelona .
2245
Every picture that Flamur posts on his Instagram page is immediately fawned over by legions of Directioners and most of his photos have been liked thousands of times.
2246
Stacey Eden (pictured) made a bold stand in defence of a Muslim couple who faced a racially-charged tirade on a Sydney train on Wednesday afternoon .
2247
Barcelona's Champions League quarter-final first-leg win over Paris Saint-Germain has been lauded by the Spanish media.
2248
The Game Boy, and its successor the Game Boy Color, went on sale in 1989 and 1998 respectively.
They have both sold a combined 118.69 million units worldwide.
2249
Rangers also this week announced six-month losses of £2.6million for the second half of last year.
But if that's the deal, that's the deal.
2250
South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has called for an end to the 'shocking and unacceptable' attacks on immigrants from Africa and South Asia, saying: 'No amount of frustration and anger can ever justify the attacks on foreign nationals.'
2251
Monbeg Dude (pictured) was given the all-clear to run in the Grand National at Aintree after a poor showing at the Cheltenham Festival .
2252
Perak Mufti Tan Sri Harussani Zakaria claims that, according to the Prophet Mohammed, a wife can only refuse her husband sex if she is menstruating, sick or just given birth.
2253
Defense attorneys Timothy Watkins, left, and David Bruck arrive at federal court on Monday during the penalty phase of the federal trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was convicted of the Boston Marathon bombings that killed three and injured 260 people in April 2013 .
2254
The Department of Immigration ranked third in the survey, while the Department of Defence and the Department of Health were also named in the top ten places Australians would like to work.
2255
Vortex:
Stan Cole, an Iraq and Afghanistan veteran, filmed this landspout from just 100 yards away in Loraine, Texas .
Spotted:
Unexpected:
2256
James Robarge, 45, from Saxtons River, Vermont was sentenced in court on Friday morning for second-degree murder in the death of his wife Kelly Robarge, 42, who disappeared from her Charlestown home on June 27, 2013.
2257
Sharon Winters was lonely and felt that Kevin Hawke was the only man who wanted her; Sharon, pictured with her mother Ann, had very low self-esteem, says her brother Stephen .
2258
Jessica Ennis-Hill has revealed she faces her 'biggest challenge ever' as she attempts to juggle being a mother with winning gold at next year's Rio Olympics.
2259
Kirkland, who founded Kirkland's home decor stores with his cousin Carl in 1966, donated the money to found the Discovery Park of America education center and tourist attraction in Tennessee.
2260
The England international has managed just six goals this season - one less than Stoke frontman Jon Walters - while his conversion rate and minutes per goal ratio have worsened as the graphic below shows.
2261
Royal Visits: Duchess of York, Sarah Furguson, left, and Princess Beatrice with Eliza Furguson, right, at the Royal Berkshire Polo Club.
2262
A Michelin-starred restaurant burned its first batch of asparagus  after the drone flying it in crashed live on TV.
Special delivery:
2263
Martinez now expects the former Manchester United midfielder to return to pre-season in the best possible shape and maintains he has a crucial role to play in Everton's future.
2264
Bradley Parkes was discovered hanging in the woods with a suicide note saying taking his own life was easier than what he was going through.
2265
Turkey said Pope Francis has caused a 'problem of trust' after describing the mass-murders of up to 1.5million Armenians by Ottoman Turks in 1915 as 'the first genocide of the 20th century'
2266
GMP's North Manchester division posted on their Facebook site after the incident: 'Dangerous New Craze Warning - Attention all parents/guardians...
2267
Horwitz, who said he will not teach the class again, called his class's behavior 'disgraceful' and told KPRC that he had never failed a class before and rarely gave out failing grades.
2268
But Sir Ranulph, in a bid to become the oldest Briton to complete the six-day ultra-marathon in the South Moroccan desert, said thoughts of the Marie Curie teams he is raising money for kept him going.
2269
India Mayhew, seven, suffered serious head injuries after the horse bolted at a riding facility in Matheran 20 miles east of Mumbai (file picture)
2270
Michael Churton from New York, was with four colleagues at the Mount Everest base camp, 17,500ft up, when he was knocked down by the tsunami of snow.
2271
Two goals from German Denis in Bergamo saw the Nerazzurri edge out Sassuolo 2-1, with Domenico Berardi notching a second-half goal for the visitors.
2272
Wang, a father of three, is charged with murder in the shooting of Dr. Vajinder Toor, 34, and shooting but missing Toor's then-pregnant wife outside the couple's Branford, Connecticut, home in April 2010.
2273
Cystic fibrosis sufferer Victoria McKennon is desperate to take part in the graduation ceremony at Plano Senior High School in Texas but is one class short of the credits she needs .
2274
Goldfish are being caught weighing up to 2kg and koi carp up to 8kg and one metre in length, in the waterways of Western Australia amongst other exotic introduced species.
2275
Kim Davies has admitted illegally altering Llanwenarth House by installing chandeliers and other gaudy modern touches .
Davies will be sentenced next month.
2276
The seven-car Maglev (pictured) - short for 'magnetic levitation' - hit a top speed of 375mph (603 km/h) and travelled for almost 11 seconds at speeds above 373mph (600km/h) during a run near Mount Fuji.
2277
Philip and Victoria Sherlock have been living out of their car for three months, after a stomach operation meant Philip could no longer work as a £400 a week gardener.
2278
Several thousand people gathered outside the city's main railway station Flinders Street at 4pm on Friday.
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
2279
Crash:
Essential to traders: Bloomberg's computer system is the world's largest dealing platform and is used by most banks and trading floors.
2280
Crystal Palace winger Wilfried Zaha posted a photo via his Instagram account which shows the England international undergoing close-up shots at several different angles.
2281
Authorities in Indonesia give death row prisoners and their families 72 hours notice before they are executed, suggesting Chan and Sukumaran could face the firing squad as early as Monday or Tuesday.
2282
Angie Donohue has told how her husband of four years, Daryl Scott Donohue, 43, had tried to hire someone to kill her, even from the confines of his prison cell.
2283
Asked about what motivates her to keep so fit, she told Daily Mail Australia there are bigger obstacles in life than running a marathon.
2284
But the trio have been recalled by head coach Alan Solomons for the Madejski Stadium clash with the Exiles as the South African looks to name is strongest XV.
2285
Opening in 2018, the gigantic Terminal 1 will cover 700,000 square metres, and is set to handle 45 million passengers a year .
2286
'If the right decision had been made in the game on Sunday we would have been in the final and we would hopefully have won the final.
2287
Founded by William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, the trio later welcomed Rossetti's brother, William, James Collinson, Frederic George Stephens and Thomas Woolner to their circle.
2288
Diego de Girolamo (right) is leaving Sheffield United at the end of the season when his contract expires .
2289
The Martin Burgess B clock has been part of a 100-day trial at the Royal Observatory (above), in Greenwich, to see if the claim - that the clock would neither lose nor gain more than a second in 100 days - was true .
2290
Neighbours complained about Caroline Cartwright's loud screams during sex sessions with her husband of 38 years and moaned that they could hear the bed banging against the wall from the adjacent house.
2291
The crowd were trying to get into see British Crust Punk band Doom who were performing inside the venue .
Several people have been arrested in connection with the tragedy.
2292
In 2014, just seven per cent of UK couples allowed the bride's parents to pay the entire bill, down from nine per cent in 2010, while over a third of married couples in the UK (31.4 per cent) covered their entire wedding bill themselves.
2293
The former prime minister said that SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon's answers on the issue are 'all evasion'. But that her party want 'chaos and constitutional crisis' at Westminster to force another independence referendum.
2294
A drone carrying small traces of a radioactive material landed on the roof of Japanese Prime Minister's office in protest against the government's nuclear energy plans.
2295
Vincent Kompany is an injury doubt for Manchester City's clash against Manchester United on Sunday .
However, he added: 'You never know what will happen in August.
2296
Th new five-year deal was reportedly worth around £80m, while the new agreement also includes branding around Milan’s San Siro Stadium, sponsorship of the club’s youth team and additional marketing rights.
2297
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt pictured with their children (Zaharah Marley, centre) Brad and Ange booked out an entire floor, but you can bag a room at the five-star Hilton Malta for £130 a night .
2298
The testing kit, on sale online, uses a small amount of blood from a finger-prick sample to detect the presence of HIV antibodies, giving a result in just 15 minutes .
2299
Rangers interim chairman Paul Murray insisted on Thursday night the actions of previous boardroom regimes were ‘solely’ to blame for the club’s stock exchange removal.
2300
To make matters worse, the Latics will have to face Brentford next weekend without star man James McClean who received his marching orders in injury-time for a second bookable offence.
2301
Swansea manager Garry Monk says he will listen to Michu before deciding whether the Spaniard has a future at the Liberty Stadium.
2302
Detailed tests were held over two days earlier this month, one day in the lab (pictured) and one day in the field  with Ms McTernan.
2303
The MailOnline revealed in January the former Baywatch star is alleged to have attempted to murder his ex-wife, Loni Willison,  in an attack caught in a terrifying audio recording .
2304
Robert Downey Jr.
Washington is believed to have been paid $20 million - $10 million more than co-star Mark Wahlberg - for the 2013 film 2 Guns.
2305
Women are most popular at 25 years and 10 months, with men hitting the friendship high point a little later at 27 years and three months.
2306
Cavani was all smiles as he posed for pictures with goats, bears and perhaps found solace in paying a visit to his fellow South American llamas.
2307
This is the moment a great grey owl swooped on a tiny rodent snowy fields in Ontario, Canada, after stalking it from high above .
2308
Police in Maryland have issued a warrant for the arrest of 26-year-old karate instructor Alexander Soumbadze who has been charged with eight counts of child pornography .
2309
Off-spinner Hafeez, 34, was banned from bowling after being reported for a suspect action five months ago in the first Test against New Zealand in Abu Dhabi and then failing an initial test on its legality.
2310
We don't get to see him enjoy these things when he's like 10, we have to do it now'
We don't get to see him enjoy these things when he's like 10, we have to do it now.'
2311
The Norwegian government said there was space for a further 20 digital radio stations and NRK, Norway's public service broadcaster, will be the first to switch off its FM service.
2312
Courtois attempts to reach for the ball but he fails as the ball sails into the Stamford Bridge net .
'I always have a look at the goalkeeper because these balls move so much.
2313
Young women no longer compare themselves to celebrities in glossy magazines but fret about how they look on Facebook instead, according to a study.
2314
The actor is best known for his role as Gilbert Blythe in the Canadian television drama film Anne of Green Gables and two sequels.
2315
Masters chairman Billy Payne talked a lot  about growing the game but he ruled out any idea of starting a women’s Masters.
Favourite pic of the week so far?
2316
All tied up: Matilda tops off her look with a simple black leather bow, which she calls her 'personal touch' inspired by her mother's affinity for bows in her hair .
2317
After the Tottenham forward posted a video of himself performing a strange jig in front of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, it is not hard to see why.
2318
It has been claimed the garden could not be classified as transport structure as it would have no public right of way .
2319
Horrified: Lynette Duncan, one of the surviving daughters of Aubrey Duncan, still remembers telling her sister that her father and Denise were dead, she said .
2320
Porto will need to hit top form to advance against five-times champions Bayern Munich on Tuesday despite holding a 3-1 first leg advantage in their Champions League quarter-final, coach Julen Lopetegui said on Monday.
2321
Homes with the upmarket store nearby cost 12 per cent more – or £38,831 – than those in surrounding areas that weren’t near a branch.
2322
This is the dramatic moment two traffic police officers were almost decapitated after a caravan sped past at speed with a window wide open.
2323
Young adults tell it like is on Twitter under the hashtag #realistic YA .
Another girl's tweet refers to Twilight, where the main character has to choose from multiple love-interests .
The hashtag on Twitter sees users comparing the reality of their own lives to young adult heroines .
Lustybustyliz writes: 'Girl meets boy at the library.
2324
Human Rights lawyer David Matas (pictured) claims people are being killed for organs in China - a country where there are only 37 registered organ donors according to the Red Cross .
2325
George Osborne has revealed he is secretly addicted to hit BBC series Poldark – and confessed to a crush on its female lead character Demelza.
2326
Formed in 2005 by a group of 'bullied 9th graders', Check It now has more than 200 members, all of whom live a life that is 'brutal' Transgender:
2327
The reptile which could pose a threat to local wildlife and even people's pet cats and dogs (stock photo) South American boa constrictors  have varying patterns of cream, brown, tan, gray, and black with ovals and diamonds .
2328
Scroll down for video .
Mr Collett has been milking snakes for almost 10 years but has never extracted venom from a king cobra .
2329
And there are no two baseball teams that are greater, or more storied, than eternal rivals the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox, who come in first and second respectively in terms of the number of people who claim them as their favorite.
2330
Aston Villa manager Tim Sherwood will move for Chris Ramsey if the Queens Park Rangers manager leaves the London club this summer.
2331
Festival-goers who attend outdoor concerts like Coachella are at risk to contract diseases like influenza and Norovirus .
Toilet upgrade:
2332
Kim's mother Leonore Sears, 53, centre, has long been admired by those on the tennis circuit .
Trees line Dunblane Cathedral ahead of the wedding ceremony .
2333
Argentina legend Diego Maradona lost his cool to kick out at a steward and lashed out at a cameraman at charity match.
Enough of the violence in Colombia!
2334
De Jong said: 'I haven't repaid the fans a lot this season, so I hope to be playing a couple of games, maybe, at the end of the season.
2335
Man City: 2 Premier League titles (2011-12, 13-14), 1 League Cup (2014).
Verdict: Decent deal .
Man City: 2 Premier League titles (2011-12, 2013-14), 1 League Cup (2014).
2336
Canadian pop sensation Justin Bieber is will carry Floyd Mayweather's championship belts into the ring ahead of his $300million Las Vegas mega-fight with Manny Pacquiao on Saturday.
2337
Clinicians are in an ‘impossible situation’ as a result of the King family’s flight to Spain after disagreeing with doctors who were treating him in the UK.
2338
A widower told an inquest today how his wife was ‘delirious and spaced out’ when she lost a large amount of blood after giving birth.
2339
Did you know that the tea bag was accidentally invented by a New York tea merchant?
But did you know that the tea bag was accidentally invented by a New York tea merchant?
2340
Franck Ribery claims he turned down Real Madrid five years ago because he was told he was as important to Bayern Munich as Lionel Messi was to Barcelona.
2341
Mrs Hongfang fell down the steps and died shortly after she struck her head and lost consciousness.
At least two people have died while visiting the Great Wall of China this month.
2342
Because the walls of the shipping containers were removed, Gooden said columns had to be placed around the house to restore structural integrity to the materials .
2343
The Iranian vessels being watched by the US fleet (pictured) were suspected of carrying arms and equipment destined for the Huthi rebels, United States defense officials said on Monday .
2344
The latest Populus survey saw the Conservatives and Labour tied on 33 per cent, but if Mrs Cameron went up against Justine Miliband she surges to 38 per cent with Labour on 30 per cent.
2345
A coroner has raised concerns over the lack of swimming lessons included in the national curriculum after a 15-year-old drowned in a river on the first day of his summer holidays.
2346
English referee Mark Clattenburg will take charge of the Champions League quarter-final clash between Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona on Wednesday night, and he will be assisted by five other Englishmen.
2347
Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, told the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva that if reports are true, BGoko Haram have committed crimes against humanity .
2348
The stars of Martin Scorsese's classic 1990 gangster film Goodfellas reunited in New York on Saturday night for a very special 25th anniversary screening of the movie which brought the 14th annual Tribeca Film Festival to a close.
2349
Not that growing old gracefully was ever likely for James Bond, who at one stage performs surgery on himself to remove a bullet, where he 'risks blood loss, lack of consciousness, nerve and muscle damage'.
2350
That same night, Truong says his sister asked him to babysit the toddler he had never met before, saying it was her boyfriend's son and they wanted to go out on a date night.
2351
A father of two sons died from injuries, official said, following a March 23 attack where he was brutally beaten (above, Keith Boudreau pictured)
2352
Bayern Munich will be without midfielders Bastian Schweinsteiger and Franck Ribery when they travel to Porto for Wednesday's Champions League quarter-final first leg.
2353
Police investigating the alleged murder of Syrian-born imam Abdul Hadi Arwani (left) have charged Khalid Rashad (right) with possession of an explosive substance for an unlawful purpose, and possession of ammunition for a firearm without a certificate .
2354
Speaking to Barcelona's official magazine ahead of the game, Messi revealed that  his hat-trick balls have a special place in his home even if he can't recall which games they're from.
2355
Rita also recently unveiled her own festival-inspired range, Rimmel: Colourfest Lip and Nail Collection by Rita Ora, for the beauty giant .
2356
The 20-year-old, from Houston, Texas (thought to be pictured with his son Perseus), insists that he has no regrets about his distinctive facial ink, and claims that his young son 'loves it'
2357
Giles was five months pregnant (above) when she went into the coma, and a month later doctors were forced to deliver her son, who the family calls Baby L, who she saw for the first time Wednesday .
2358
Bristol City will become the first Football League club to win promotion this season should they beat Bradford on Tuesday night.
2359
Autism is a spectrum condition, which means that while all people with autism share certain difficulties, their condition affects them in different ways.
2360
Nathaniel Chalobah 7 .
Gave as good as he got down the Royals' left side before begin subbed.
Subs .
Jem Karacan (on for Robson-Kanu, 89) 6.5 .
2361
A 73-year-old grandmother has been convicted of murder in the shooting death of her third husband — three decades after being acquitted of killing her second husband.
2362
The surprising news comes just a month after the 28-year-old revealed on social media that he was looking to buy an exotic pet to keep him company.
2363
Soldiers are seen being hosed down on the deck of the SS River Clyde, a mule is hoisted on board the ship and even the moment a soldier makes the dash across No Man's Land has been captured for posterity.
2364
A mother-of-five threw her teenage daughter a party, played naked Twister with her friends and then had sex with an 18-year-old in the bathroom, authorities have said.
2365
Britt McHenry has marked her return to work by apologizing for her 'hurtful' actions and has asked fans for a second chance.
Return:
'Excited':
2366
An 18-year-old student who stripped naked and ran through the streets of Byron Bay to win a free kebab has been labelled a 'goose' in court.
2367
At a Christmas party last year at the Diamond Tap Wetherspoons in Newbury, Berkshire (pictured), Lawson stabbed his colleague Mr Myers with a steak knife following a row over his onion rings .
2368
When she set the World Record of 2:15.25 in the London Marathon in April 2003 – a time no woman has threatened 12 years later – there was no grinning until after she crossed the line.
2369
Oil from a Russian  trawler which was towed out to  sea to sink after catching fire in port is washing up on the beaches of Gran Canaria and  threatening  tourist spots across the Canary Islands.
2370
Uno, just three weeks old, and Louie, a full-grown dog, were together at home in Spokane, Washington, earlier this month.
Playdate:
2371
,’ Matt told Daily Mail Australia.'
Last month, the boys released a similar video which saw them order Domino's pizza and collaborate with the deliveryman .
2372
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has claimed no club has made an offer for Aaron Cresswell, and that the left back would be better off continuing his development at West Ham amid rumoured interest from Chelsea and Manchester City.
2373
First identified in 2000,  psychologists noted religious pilgrims overcome with excitement at being in close proximity to the city's holy places believed they were Biblical characters.
2374
Two mothers who dramatically rescued a baby and group of young girls from rising tides were horrified to discover onlookers filming the incident instead of helping them.
2375
The Captain Birdseye lookalike was jailed at Manchester Crown Court for a total of four years and eight months after admitting cheating the taxman out of over £1million by reclaiming VAT from three false businesses.
2376
A freight train carrying a dangerous form of ammonia derailed in a rural area of South Carolina on Friday night - causing several cars to overturn and leak, and sparking a 1.5-mile-wide evacuation.
2377
McCoy was shipped to the Bills in exchange for linebacker Kiko Alonso and says Kelly's team has a college feel and that he doesn't like star talent.
2378
But under the new changes, Twitter's new enforcement option lets the support team temporarily lock abusive accounts for a set period of time, up to 12 hours.
2379
Andrew 'Drew' Butler, 25, allegedly shot mother-of-three Kendra Gonzalez from the passenger seat in San Jose, California, in front of the couple's two-year-old son and her teenage daughter.
2380
Other top ranking 'cleaning sins' include leaving hair in the plug hole, only changing bed sheets once a month and letting exploded food in the microwave fester.
2381
It is just so sad.'
Sad:
Hanged:
'It is just so sad but Fred would not have liked people laughing at him,' she said.
He said: 'That's very sad.
2382
Not once but twice
Locals were trying to coax the herd of elephants back into the forest when one suddenly became violent .
2383
Morrisons has been named the best place to get breakfast in the UK - beating restaurants, pubs and hotels to win the title - with its Big Breakfast (pictured) one of the most popular items on its extensive morning menu .
2384
Jarrod then jumps in the pool himself and gives the camera his best Blue Steel look as he slicks back his hair.
Linda Farrow round frame gold plated sunglasses .
Visit site .
2385
Shaquille Omar Hallisey (pictured) hit a stranger over the head with a bottle leaving his victim with a fractured skull .
2386
The Park Hyatt New York, for example, recently hired First Lady Michelle Obama's favourite designer, Narcisco Rodriguez, to re-design the staff's uniforms.
2387
Weekend opening hours for GPs has been touted as one solution to relieve the mounting pressure on A&E departments - by improving access, it is thought many patients won’t need to take up other care services .
2388
McCluskey has denied that he has too much influence over Ed Miliband, adding that Unite is supporting the party '100 per cent' McCluskey's determination to influence Labour was all too evident in Wales.
2389
NSW Homicide squad boss Detective Superintendent Mick Willing (pictured) revealed on Friday that police are investigating William Tyrrell's disappearance at a very fast pace and that 'one of our lines of inquiry relates to people we expect to be involved in a paedophile ring'
2390
Jordan Speith, pictured during his final round on Sunday, is in prime position to win The Masters, taking a four shot lead into the final round at Augusta .
2391
Let's start in Spain, where Marca and AS report that Real Madrid are set to be without Karim Benzema for their Champions League quarter-final second leg clash against rivals Atletico Madrid.
2392
The Hospital of Dolls, or Ospedale delle Bambole as it is known in Rome, was built by the Squatriti family 60 years ago and today their descendants, Federico Squatriti, 52, and his 82-year-old mother Gelsomina continue the family tradition.
2393
I think we did way too much travelling and way too much games.’
‘It is not positive to play games with half a team and lose 5-1 and 6-1,’ said the Celtic boss.
2394
Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino insists he has no desire to be popular among Southampton fans as he prepares for his first return to the south coast.
2395
Jean Green Dorsey says the refusal of landlords to let rent-stabilized tenants use the new gym facility in the building 'smacks of second-class citizenship .
2396
The ball boy, who initially shames himself by slipping over while retrieving the ball, toys with Green by pretending to hand him the ball back before rolling it between the clearly frustrated 35-year-old's legs.
2397
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg today revealed he struggled with maths at school, as he prepares to launch his election manifesto which will promise to balance the nation's books 'fairly'
2398
’ There was some good news for Rodgers after Jordan Henderson completed the formalities of signing his new five-year contract, which is heavily incentivised and worth more than £100,000 per week.
2399
The first dramatic footage of the Hatton Garden jewellery heist shows how the gang returned twice in three days to continue their audacious robbery  - as it is revealed police may have to pay out millions in compensation for ignoring the alarm.
2400
Four people attach themselves to the wood and the plank is lifted onto the woman’s feet by the assistants .
2401
'I believe she [was] holding on to say goodbye to her Chiefs,' her daughter, Susan told KCTV5.
The Chiefs Ambassadors shared on Twitter that Betty would be missed by Chief Kingdom.
2402
One in three GP training places  remain empty, it emerged today, sparking concerns patients will struggle more than ever to access a family doctor.
2403
Each bungalow reportedly sleeps up to eight people and offers a view of both the Magic Kingdom Resort and the lagoon, where an electrical water pageant takes place each night.
2404
The fixture, which will be broadcast on Sky Sports, will be the only pre-season fixture that Tottenham will play outside of Europe and head coach Mauricio Pochettino is looking forward to returning to the US after the club's tour last summer.
2405
Scott Dann was a fraction offside when he set up Glenn Murray for Palace’s first goal (2), but it would be harsh to put too much blame on assistant John Brooks.
2406
His poem The Soldier, featuring the line 'there's some corner of a foreign field that is forever England', was immensely popular during the First World War, and made even more poignant when Brooke himself died while on active service on April 23, 1915.
2407
Burmese fishermen raise their hands as they are asked who among them want to go home at the compound of Pusaka Benjina Resources fishing company in Benjina, Aru Islands, Indonesia .
2408
The beaches, often filled with foreigners and day-trippers from the capital Seoul, features an 'overlapping' of military installations along the coast as it nears the border with the north, he said.
2409
Tibor Racsits, 42, had gone to pick up his daughter Kiara from the movies at Charlestown Square in Newcastle, north of Sydney, on Sunday night when they were attacked.
2410
This just days before a judge will decide if she must hand over $2.8million in gifts she received from her ex, embattled former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling.
2411
The USS Theodore Roosevelt and the USS Normandy left the Persian Gulf on Sunday (seen on the map) and are heading through the Arabian Sea towards Yemen, according to reports .
2412
Next level drunk: Intoxicated Rahul Kumar, 17, climbed into the lions' enclosure at a zoo in Ahmedabad and began running towards the animals shouting 'Today I kill a lion!'
2413
Southampton striker Graziano Pelle insists his confidence hasn't been destroyed despite no scoring in the Premier League since December 20.
2414
Ganjendra Singh, 41, hanged himself from a tree in the middle of a public protest over land rights after telling onlookers he could no longer afford to feed his three children .
2415
The iconic sports field, completed in 1960 and home to first the San Francisco Giants and later the San Francisco 49ers, has been torn down to make way for houses, a hotel and a shopping center.
2416
There are no words that can adequately express the pain and anguish that we have endured in the last two years,' Nachman's mother, Henny Glauber (pictured), said .
2417
On the House side, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said today that he will bring the Corker bill to the floor if the Senate acts on legislation giving Congress the power to review any deal .
2418
I’m not one of those athletic people who glide through the water with a sleek, racing crawl - I’m that woman with the white-hatted head bobbing up and down offshore in a rather staid breast stroke .
2419
Many of the people break down in tears as they read comments like, 'I hate the homeless, I don’t feel sorry for you,' and 'I saw a homeless girl across the street.
I almost vomited.'
2420
Jayla Currie from Berne, Indiana, is a part of the Wee Ones Nursery program at the Indiana Women’s Prison, a system that was established in 2008 and allows mothers, like Jayla, to share rooms with their babies while they serve out their sentences.
2421
Eathan Cruse, 19, one of the five men taken into custody after raids on Saturday morning, said officers assaulted him after he had been handcuffed.
2422
An American college student who abandoned the west to wage holy war in Syria and call for homegrown attacks in the United States has told how she lied to her family and cashed in her tuition money to flee the West.
2423
A detective from Baltimore (pictured) said officers used a device called Hailstorm, which can identify phones from a 360-degree antenna from about a city block away in distance .
2424
On the eve of the infamous couple's 10-year wedding anniversary, Letourneau, Fualaau and their two children, 17-year-old Audrey and 16-year-old Georgia, sat down for an exclusive interview with Barbara Walters on 20/20, which will air on ABC Friday at 10pm.
2425
Miss Finn had a £300 procedure to tattoo eyebrows on to her face (she is pictured before, left, and after, right).
She said: ‘It was like my face changed overnight.
2426
April 4 - England 1-2 Norway (Match to be replayed from 96th min on April 9 at 9:45pm) April 4 - Switzerland 1-0 Northern Ireland .
taken.
2427
A Canadian prostitute says that she wishes  other people wouldn't make her feel so ashamed of working in the sex industry - because she actually really enjoys her job.
2428
Matheryn is currently at the Arizona-based Alcor, her brain and body frozen separately at 196C.
Matheryn is currently at the Arizona-based Alcor, her brain and body frozen separately.
2429
I'm genuinely concerned that this view isn't shared by the current Labour Party – and that business is viewed as the problem, rather than the essential engine that gives politicians the ability to provide that fair and compassionate society.
2430
Worcester Magistrates Court heard Humphries flipped when his partner of 14 years refused to allow him into her home to see their two children and began throwing Cadbury Mini Eggs after drunkenly losing his temper .
2431
However, Premier League regulations state that clubs must provide at least 10 per cent of their overall allocation of tickets for away supporters.
2432
Len Barnes, 57, from Stockton, has been cured of the severe bowel infection Clostridium difficile after undergoing a faecal transplant.
2433
Convicted: Takudzwa Hova, 21, (left) was sentenced to six years' imprisonment, while Zsolt Szalontai, 18, (right) was sentenced to three years' detention in a Young Offenders' Institute after being found guilty of rape .
2434
He told Newsweek magazine that his latest ambition was to recruit former heads of government to go round the world to advise presidents and prime ministers on how to run their countries.
2435
When police arrived, Fleming's daughter was being held by Jones' sister, who told police she had been caring for her sister's child while her sister was in Texas.
2436
By two years-old, one in five boys and one in ten girls was overweight or obese and children who had taken antibiotics as young babies were particularly likely to be overweight (file photo)
2437
The FA and PFA promised a 10-year study to investigate the connection between head injuries and early on-set dementia after a coroner found Astle’s brain ‘resembled that of a boxer’s’ but a Mail on Sunday investigation last year revealed the research was never carried out.
2438
Grand Rapids, Michigan Police have an arrest warrant out for suspect Jalin Smith-Walker in connection to the Monday evening fight, but as of Thursday morning authorities say they are still attempting to locate the young woman.
2439
Jörg has also painted models into a number of other backdrops, including  include mechanic garages, music shops and fishing ports.
2440
Angered that her in-laws had stopped her husband from doing chores around the home, she sought revenge by urinating in their cups of tea for more than a year.
2441
The Costco in Watford where three men - cousins Patrick and James O’Driscoll and Michael McInerney - tried to grab cigarettes from Mr Prasanna's van before speeding off in separate vehicles.
2442
The 24-year-old has been billed as the next Ricky Hatton due to his impressive fan base and close to 10,000 packed into the First Direct Arena on Saturday night.
And he deservedly heard the final bell as Warrington failed to deliver the stoppage in the last session before the judges awarded him a landslide victory by scores of 119-109 twice and 119-110.
2443
Gareth Bale (centre) is set to start for Real after being rested at the weekend against Eibar on Saturday .
'They fight from the first minute to the last,' he said.
2444
'Cannibal killer': Joseph Oberhansley, who admitted to killing his ex-girlfriend before eating some of her organs last year, could now face a rape charge.
2445
McCoy has not decided yet whether he is riding Shutthefrontdoor in the £1million Crabbie's Grand National at Aintree on  April 11, but everything points to him doing so.
2446
A brass desk lamp used by Florence Nightingale as she wrote about her nursing experiences in the Crimean War is to be sold at auction.
2447
At the end of the video, the Brazilian lifts up his sauna suit and empties a considerable volume of water on to the floor.
Scroll down for videos .
2448
The 29-year-old has revived his career in recent months under Louis van Gaal after first filling in at wing-back and since reclaiming his place on United's left wing.
2449
The donor, Josh Dall-Leighton of Windham told the Portland Press Herald that Maine Medical Center officials informed him this week that it has concerns about the amount of money raised for him.
2450
Mexican federal authorities arrested Juarez Cartel boss Jesus Salas Aguayo on Friday, bringing an end to the career of a criminal who was famed for dispatching his enemies with the use of dynamite.
2451
Aaron Ramsey (right) fires Arsenal into a 1-0 lead in the 12th minute as Arsene Wenger's side fly out of the traps at Turf Moor .
Booked: Duff, Mee .
2452
The eminent plastic surgeon who treated acid attack victim Katie Piper molested another patient after getting drunk in his surgery, a tribunal was told yesterday.
2453
A former SS sergeant (pictured) described in chilling detail Wednesday how cattle cars full of Jews were brought to the Auschwitz death camp, the people stripped of their belongings and then most led directly into gas chambers .
2454
Speaking to CNN, al-Labani's family said he was struck by mortar shrapnel after leaving a mosque Tuesday and soon died.
They are reportedly 13 and 16 years old.
2455
A filmmaker, whose older sister has Down syndrome, is confronting the misuse of the word 'retarded' and exploring the history of how the medical term has evolved into a hateful insult in her upcoming documentary, which aims to change the way people think, speak and act.
2456
Derek Skyler Brux, 22, was sentenced to five years probation for taking a train from a coal mine and crashing it into another train last fall.
He must also pay $63,000 in restitution to Rail Link, his employer .
2457
All of the four officers involved in the case committed misconduct involving racist texts 'exchanged among themselves and former police officers', Fort Lauderdale Police Chief Frank Adderley said .
2458
Wing's is the go-to place for footballers in Manchester, with Wayne Rooney a regular (pictured previously) Rooney pictured previously at Wing's Chinese restaurant for a Q and A session with United supporters .
2459
Manny Pacquiao hardly needs added motivation to work hard ahead of his May 2 mega-fight against Floyd Mayweather, but a personalised gift from celebrity lawyer Robert Shapiro has provided some nevertheless.
2460
Ms Carmedy also said the hole in the wall was not big enough to see into the next room, the damaged wallpaper was only visible because furniture had been pulled away from the wall and that the nightclub was mentioned on their website.
2461
Debate participants: (From left) Labour Party leader Ed Miiband, Plaid Cymru Party leader Leanne Wood, Green Party leader Natalie Bennett, Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon and Ukip's Nigel Farage .
2462
West Ham (Home) - May 24 .
West Ham (Home) - May 9 .
Sunderland (Away) - May 16 .
West Ham (Home) - April 25 .
Leicester (Home) - April 25 .
2463
New information from Nasa's Mars rover Curiosity, published in the journal Nature, shows that it is possible that there is liquid water close to the surface of the red planet.
2464
Footage taken by a dashcam fitted by Shaun Ingram to his Ford Focus ST, which showed a mechanic taking a customer's car for a joyride at 57mph in a 30mph zone .
2465
What’s causing it?
B vitamins are important for the health of the nervous system and are needed to get energy from the carbohydrates, fats and proteins that we eat, so we use them up during the energy-rich stress response.
What’s causing it?
Stress can cause people have trouble shifting colds and they commonly move to the chest and throat.
2466
Judge Martin Edmunds QC told Riches his trial would take place on August 10 at Isleworth Crown Court.
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
2467
Bodyguard:
The Queen is greeted at Sheffield Cathedral ahead of the traditional Royal Maundy Service .
Long wait:
Bodyguards:
Long history:
2468
According to Lord Ashcroft's poll of 10 marginal constituencies today, the Tories are set to lose four seats to Labour but cling on in five.
2469
The Super Falcon and Dragon are priced at £1.15 million ($1.7 million) and £1 million ($1.5 million) respectively.
Another offering by the U-Boat Worx team is the C-Explorer 3.
2470
Australian actress Samara Weaving (left) offset her silver septum ring with red heart-shaped glasses, while Zoe Kravitz (right) adopted a tiny ring .
2471
His reaction to losing to Lewis Hamilton – blaming the Brit for slowing down and bunching him up as the attacking Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel closed on him – told us more about his own state of mind than it offered fair criticism of Hamilton.
2472
The United States government only admitted to this experiment in 2010, which was run by Dr. John Cutler, also known for his infamous experiment in Tuskegee, Alabama.
2473
Prison officers at Coldingley prison in Surrey reportedly turned a blind eye to the partying, which happened in the run up to Christmas in December last year .
2474
Ivorian ace Toure has hinted he could leave the Etihad Stadium by revealing he is open to 'new challenges'
2475
Billed as the 'Islamic State Dewan of Health', the video features an Australian doctor, known as Abu Yusuf al-Australi.
Abu Yusuf says: 'My name is Abu Yusuf.
2476
And during the Sydney Lindt café siege last year Kassab sent a series of tweets joking that it was 'exciting' 'I guess attack the coffee shop wasn't a bad idea, It's a long night…
2477
Wendell Steiner, his wife, and their four children were stopped by police in Akron, Ohio during their 300-mile journey from Nova, Ohio to Pennsylvania.
2478
Every year since then, Sutton has attended the Kentucky Derby and has collected each year's program since then, which he keeps in a binder at home.
2479
More than 400 extra officers have been drafted in by British Transport Police with rivals Manchester United, Liverpool and Leeds United all in London this weekend.
2480
The 19-year-old victim, known as DJ Charmz, had been leaving the Club Life Nightclub in Vauxhall's Goding Street, in London, with a group of friends after performing a set when a group of men approached them, the court heard.
2481
Tiger tossed his driver after hitting off the ninth tee and sending the ball onto the first fairway during first round play of the Masters golf tournament at the Augusta National Golf Course in Augusta, Georgia Thursday .
Tiger Woods showed up to the event at the Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, with his two children, Sam, 8, and Charlie, 6, and his girlfriend Lindsey Vonn, who was dressed in a floor-length, spaghetti strap gown, accessorized with diamonds and Louis Vuitton.
Visit site .
2482
E-cigs contain far fewer cancer-causing and other toxic substances than cigarettes, however their long-term effects on health and nicotine dependence are unknown.
2483
Robert Penny told the Herald Sun that he was shocked when police charged him with murdering Claire Acocks and his wife Margaret Penny at Old London Coiffure Hairdressers in Portland on May 3, 1991, about 350km west of Melbourne.
2484
Southampton manager Ronald Koeman admits Morgan Schneiderlin may have played his last game for the club.
‘The club is offering the maximum we can,’ Koeman said.
2485
Saskia, 17, aced the 'Arsenal exam' given by her boyfriend with a score of 43.5 out of 50 or 87 per cent .
‘I salute your boyfriend!
2486
The campaign will also allow businesses that remain open over the public holidays the option to display a sign in their windows to explain why they are operating with reduced staff.
2487
Between shots of the rapper standing on war-ravaged streets and posing with gun-wielding fighters, Volcano is seen giving a concert in downtown Benghazi.
2488
They even revealed they plan to serve drinks in Burger King cups, with each guest's name on the side - if the international eatery will let them.
2489
Goal: Benteke 80 .
United substitute Angel di Maria (left) congratulates Herrera after his injury time goal restores United's two-goal advantage .
2490
Now they look a little tired as they get towards the finishing line and Mourinho would feel he has very strong squad of 13 and 14 but he will probably try to bring in people so he can give Nemanja Matic or Cesc Fabregas a couple of weeks rest at times to recuperate.
2491
Strikes from Newcastle's David Ginola and Faustino Asprilla either side of another from Fowler continued the goalfest and when Liverpool's Stan Collymore drew both sides level with just over 20 minutes remaining the game was balanced on a knife edge.
2492
They breed quickly, producing up to five litters of five young each year, and can be found right across Australia in various habitats .
2493
'I had more fear of Aston Villa than Manchester City,' the United manager said, before adding: 'Aston Villa was more defensive.
2494
Mr Spencer, who the court heard was not involved in any form of match-fixing, is alleged to have been messaged by Facey, who told him: 'You lot (Hyde) get rinsed out, week in, week out.
2495
Edward Ofere (left) equalised for Inverness from close range a minute after Griffiths scoring .
Even so, it was Inverness who came on strongly at the end.
2496
Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti will not rush into a decision on Javier Hernandez.
Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti will not rush into a decision on Javier Hernandez .
2497
The Life Ball, which takes place in May, is the biggest charity event in Europe supporting people with HIV/AIDS and is being dubbed Europe's answer to the MET Ball thanks to it's dazzling guestlist.
2498
FIFA presidential candidate Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein has made a formal rotation of the World Cup between the continents one of the key elements of his manifesto and says he can see a tournament being jointly hosted by several different nations.
2499
Identical twins share 100 per cent of their genes, while non-identical twins - like non-twin siblings - share about 50 per cent.
2500
Stutzman, owner of Arlene's Flowers and Gifts in Richland, Washington, received the fine in Benton County Superior Court in March after refusing to serve same-sex couple Robert Ingersoll and Curt Freed in 2013.
2501
Shay Given will start for Aston Villa against Liverpool in Sunday's FA Cup semi-final at Wembley .
He knows how to get the best out of people.’
2502
Chelsea are in early discussions over a possible partnership with Belgian club Royal Mouscron-Peruwelz.
They are 13th in the table, two points above the relegation places.
2503
The Labour leader, pictured in Leeds yesterday after launching the health manifesto, will insist a Labour government would ‘cut the deficit every year’ and have national debt falling ‘as soon as possible'
2504
Although eating cat meat is illegal, police officers and lawyers are among Vietnam's biggest customers.
Cat hot pot and stir fried cat are our most popular dishes.'
2505
The monkeys of northern India's Shimla region have a fearsome reputation - and as this video shows, for a very good reason.
Scroll down for video .
2506
The unnamed pilot declared an emergency, but the plane crashed shortly after in a wooded area close to the runway, before bursting into flames.
2507
The rumours do not interest me, I want to stay in Florence.
Gomez, pictured against Tottenham, left Bayern Munich to join Fiorentina for over £17million in July 2013 .
2508
Now doctors at University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (UCLH) are able to start vital treatment much sooner using a single procedure.
2509
Amanda Knox and her ex-boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito served four years for Meredith Kercher's murder before being conclusively cleared by Italy's highest court last month .
2510
Nonetheless, the rising star looked in good spirits as she posed for pictures with fellow Canadian and Olympic medalist Walsh Jennings and had a hit with Sports Illustrated cover model Hannah Ward at a promotional event at the Crandon Park Tennis Center.
2511
Digital delivery of music . caught up with physical formats like CDs as a money stream for .
Digital formats have now caught up with physical sales of music for the first time.
2512
Gaza police have seized the work 'under a court order' from Bilal Khaled, who is accused of buying the piece painted on a door belonging to the Darduna family without telling them its real value.
2513
Property developer Shropshire Homes is beginning work on demolishing parts of the asylum beyond repair as part of a project to revamp the structure into 102 apartments.
2514
Environmental activists filed a lawsuit against the Taiji Whaling Museum in May 2014, claiming it had refused experts to check on the safety of the elusive dolphin.
2515
When you are a team like us, you play in the Europa League and the Premier League it is difficult to manage it.
You suffer a lot when things are not good.
2516
Mrs Davis's family (pictured) said in a statement outside Winchester Crown Court today: 'The people responsible for our mum's brutal murder have been convicted but we cannot celebrate .
2517
This 34-year-old has spoken about the horrific attack by three men who pelted hard boiled eggs at them as they walked to their car in the late afternoon last Saturday.
2518
Bristol City became the first side in the Football League to win promotion as they booked their place in next season's Sky Bet Championship by battering Bradford 6-0.
2519
Michelle Obama likes to keep a busy schedule and Wednesday was no exception as the first lady managed to effortlessly combine an event with school children during the afternoon and a black tie event in the evening.
2520
U.N. Special Envoy for Refugees Angelina Jolie, right, and U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees AntÛnio Guterres, left, brief the U.N. Security Council on Syria's refugee crisis .
2521
Poundland has been forced to pull decorative plastic Easter Eggs from their shelves over fears they may choke - because they look like Cadbury Mini Eggs (pictured is the Poundland version)
Steve Playle, Investigations and Enforcement Manager at Buckinghamshire and Surrey Trading Standards, said: 'These products could very easily be mistaken for Cadbury Mini Eggs by young children and swallowed leading to dire consequences.
2522
Norman Turgel pictured as a young soldier in the British Intelligence Corps in his early 20s (l) and Gena Turgel as a young girl (r) Gena, weighing only a few pounds was, like many others in the camp, a walking skeleton, for whom certain death was only days away.
2523
Mr Goddard's marriage to Lewis' mother ended after he was involved in a serious car accident which ended his career as a solider and led to him getting depression and leaving Germany .
2524
Falling at the first hurdle: Cody got stuck in the mud after wandering into a bog in Belvedere south-east London .
2525
California Gov. Jerry Brown ordered state officials to impose mandatory water restrictions for the first time in history on Wednesday, as the state continues to grapple with a serious drought.
2526
Taylor Burmeister, who wrote the tweet about Hillary failing to satisfy Bill, deleted it just before noon on Friday, along with a second message.
2527
Jamie Carragher believes Chelsea captain John Terry is the best defender to have ever graced the Premier League.
'It was the best JT has ever played.
2528
Ella May Rudd points to the leak on her Hummer H2 that she was trying to have repaired at a Maaco auto body shop in Haggerstown, Maryland, before co-owner Kyle Kandrick left a threatening voicemail for her husband .
2529
Police have dramatically arrested a 27-year-old man who tried to flee the area after officers found a woman’s body in the boot of the car he was driving.
2530
The family of a teenage burglar left seriously injured when he fell through a roof during a school break-in have been left with a £150,000 legal bill after trying to sue the council for not doing more to secure the premises.
2531
Former police sergeant William Mudd (above) said he was getting his dogs welfare in one email as they are 'mixed in color, unemployed, lazy, can't speak English, and have no frigging clues who their Daddies are'
2532
By Joanna Biggs .
Joanna Biggs makes it bleakly clear that for many people today, 'the idea that good work brings a good life no longer holds'.
2533
He and his wife Claudine, who was born in New York, specialise in AcroVinyasa, a type of yoga that combines the traditional practice with L-based acrobatic flying.
2534
Novak Djokovic  plays a backhand against Murray  in the mens final during the Miami Open .
‘I’m going to go up to Scotland early and spend time with my family for a couple of days.
2535
CDC Director Tom Frieden said in a statement: 'These outbreaks show a troubling trend in Shigella infections in the United States.
2536
Ms Hall, who works for a local authority, said it was part of a cheap £1.50 set she had used weeks before and had probably fallen in her pocket.
2537
'Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided that they’d they go kill some Americans?
PROTEST:
2538
Officer Michael Slager has received a visit from his mother and pregnant wife in prison for the first time since he was charged with fatally shooting Walter Scott.
2539
More than 7million gardens in Britain have now been paved over and the RHS is calling for people to plant hedges, trees and flowers to turn the UK green again - as grassy well kept gardens boost mood .
2540
Views of Central park:
If it sells for $75million, the home will break the record for most expensive co-op sold on the Upper West Side in history.
2541
In the unrelated incidents, our flight crews took the appropriate action to divert due to minor technical issues or as a result of a customer being unwell on board.'
2542
Joe Calzaghe relaxed on the beech with his girlfriend Lucy in Barbados .
The couple enjoyed a jet-ski session before the rain came down and they retreated to their lounger .
2543
According to Michael Redwood, inevitable wind-ups surfaced 'whenever the devil inside' Peter O'Toole needed entertaining .
2544
They lost close to £1,500 on a trip to Morocco, where he had planned to propose, because their passports did not arrive in time – even though they had applied ten weeks before they were due to travel and paid for upgrades.
2545
The anchor said he caught the eye of the lead mounted government soldier before violence at Cairo's Tahrir Square made the situation 'turn sour'
2546
At a price of £750,000, the buyer will have to pay £27,000 in stamp duty - the same as a second-hand narrow boat which is 50ft long.
2547
Charlie Austin is being considered for a surprise England call up for the national team’s summer fixtures after scoring 17 goals for relegation-threatened QPR.
2548
Two women were knocked out and a reveller was arrested after 'all hell broke loose' in a mass brawl involving up to 20 holidaymakers at Pontins (pictured) in Southport, Merseyside .
2549
It is understood the decision has been sped up by Sky Sports' move to withdraw funding and propose an altered format, with Gareth Southgate, the FA's head of national teams at St George's Park, saying player development is the key reason.
2550
The suspect was taken back into police custody just a block away from the abandoned police car in the 4600 block of 8th Avenue, Wylam around 9:45 a.m. after witnesses pointed police in his direction .
2551
Josh Mason, who is standing in Lib Dem-held Redcar, said his own party leader Nick Clegg was 'not the most popular'
2552
Anthony Joshua poses at his weigh-in ahead of the fight with Jason Gavern at the Newcastle Metro Arena .
'Sparring has been really good.
2553
Everyone is playing for something.
Wigan were playing to stay up and I think in all games someone has something to play for, so every game will be difficult.
2554
Hat-maker Mary Anna Smith wears an Easter bonnet featuring a blue ship, which she fashioned from an elaborate kite .
'I'm carrying on that tradition,' said Mejias.
2555
Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders said she was aware of potential links between a key aide and the Lord Janner's QC son .
2556
Huw Davies, 34, has been searching for permanent employment for almost 13 years since graduating from the University of Glamorgan in 2002.
2557
PJ Spraggins was delighted when he discovered he was a perfect match for wife Tracy, who was told her life-long battle with Lupus would kill her if she didn't get a transplant.
2558
The narrow skirt clings to my hips and legs, making me look taller and slimmer, and the bustline is quite high, hiding the cleavage which gives a nice demure look.
2559
Leicester manager Nigel Pearson has urged his players to focus on their own job and not worry about their relegation rivals during run-in .
2560
Mr Worthington's mother, Jean Allen (pictured), appealed to other motorists not to use their mobile phones when driving after it was found her son had sent a text message seconds before his car crashed .
2561
Due to the high Pay-per-view price of the fight ($89.99 - $99.99), its anticipated thousands of fight fans might try to watch the bout for free via a live video streaming app like Periscope or Meerkat.
2562
With just over three weeks until polling day, 39 per cent of voters now say they will back the Conservatives compared to just 33 per cent for Labour, according to the pollsters ICM.
2563
In a report earlier this month, neighbors told WFAA that cars would fill the street for services, presided by the Mezas, but that no one knew what was happening inside of the home operating also as Iglesia Internacional Jesus es el Rey Church.
2564
The BBC faced angry criticism for giving an Election platform to ‘mini Russell Brand’ Gareth Shoulder (above) who mocked David Cameron over his disabled son .
2565
In Lisa Erspamer's new book A Letter to My Mom, Kelly Osbourne (R) wrote a letter to her mother Sharon (L) saying that she's happy to have grown up to be just like her .
2566
The future looked bleak for the 25-year-old assistant basketball coach at Dalton State College, but against overwhelming odds Redman recovered, and on March 24 he helped lead his team to a championship title.
2567
A touch judge is hit by a bottle at the end of the Round 5 NRL match between the Canterbury Bankstown Bulldogs and the South Sydney Rabbitohs at ANZ Stadium in Sydney on Friday .
2568
Jack Wilshere can be the future of Arsenal’s midfield, but his injury record could turn him into another Abou Diaby, fears club legend Ray Parlour.
2569
An Egyptian goose that lived for at least a week with an arrow piercing its neck as it evaded capture by animal control workers in Southern California died after it was wrangled and taken to surgery.
2570
Victory this season with Bayern, who face Porto in the quarter-finals starting Wednesday night at the Dragao, would make Alonso only the second player to win European football's top trophy with three clubs having held it during his time at Liverpool and Real Madrid.
2571
In the video, captured by an NBC helicopter, Francis Pusok, 30, is seen falling off the horse he was suspected of stealing after being pursued several miles by the San Bernardino County officers.
2572
Mauricio Pochettino insists Aston Villa manager Tim Sherwood will be shown respect on his return to White Hart Lane - 11 months after he was shown the door by Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy.
2573
CBS political analyst John Dickerson (left) has been announced as the new host of Face the Nation, taking over from veteran broadcaster Bob Schieffer, who announced his retirement last week (right)
2574
The family of 20-year-old Perth volunteer Ballantyne Forder led a tireless campaign, making headlines as they pleaded for help to find Ms Forder, who had been working in an orphanage in Kathmandu.
2575
’m going to have a go myself, it’s a wonderful thing.
Asked if he thought Mr Cameron was too vain, a greying Mr Farage said: ‘To a certain extent they all are.
2576
Mourinho won two Premier League titles with Chelsea during his first spell at Stamford Bridge and Willian is convinced that his manager will play a key role during their remaining eight games.
2577
Data from the second black box recorder on Germanwings Flight 4U9525 today confirmed co-pilot Andreas Lubitz deliberately flew the Airbus A320 into the side of a mountain into the French Alps, killing 150 people.
2578
A house used by five generations of the same family has been put on the market for the first time in 100 years.
He said: 'Freda lived there all of her life.
2579
Taylor Davis, 20, was seen in the Kissimmee, Florida store, touching himself and possibly following a female shopper on Tuesday by a worker who called police.
2580
Now, at the age of ten, Kai is set to undergo hormone treatment to halt puberty to stop him developing into a woman.
Meanwhile, his grades immediately improved.
2581
But in October 2014, he received a worrying text message from an unknown number which read: 'Your wife has married a Gambian man, is pregnant by him and living in his family compound in the town of Bakau.'
2582
Vanilla Ice, whose real name is Robert Van Winkle, appeared in Palm Beach County Court on Thursday and agreed to a plea deal over a grand theft charge.
2583
Success:
Touching down after the flight, the royal gives a thumbs up and smiles out the window as he says the landing felt 'quite good'
Success:
2584
She posted the results of the not-entirely-serious stunt on Twitter, revealing that her boyfriend of two-and-a-half years had passed with a score of 80 per cent, for diligently answering questions mainly about Beyonce's songs.
2585
But now you have come, brave hero and you can save her.
If the player missed the girl she starts to lose weight until she eventually dies, prompting complaints .
2586
Arsenal legend Ian Wright would be disappointed to see Theo Walcott leave north London, and believes his troubled times at the club are down to Arsene Wenger's refusal to play him as a striker.
2587
Mr Rule added: 'A lot of people forget about the hospital time we spend trialling medications until we decided the best treatment we already had in our own backyard.
2588
3/5 .
This does an adequate job and you get a lot for your money — including a generous 350ml water tank and variable steam control, which means you can opt for continuous steam at 40g per min or a 140g per minute shot of steam.
2589
Hibs, Hearts and Rangers united in condemnation of the SPFL's decision to move the Ibrox club's final game of the Championship season back 24 hours.
2590
Ed Miliband today refused to confirm that deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman would become Deputy Prime Minister if Labour wins the general election .
2591
Lobster Pound and Moore, in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, had posted 'effective as of now, we will no longer allow small screaming children', saying that it 'caters to those who enjoy food and are out to enjoy themselves'.
2592
Assistant Treasurer Josh Frydenberg praised Mr Costello as a 'very distinguished' former treasurer, but said the government had reduced the overall tax take and a small business tax cut was on its way .
2593
Overall, the data was viewed more than 1,000 times and downloaded 47 times; some activity had connections to crime syndicates in Nigeria and Russia .
2594
Mourinho said the other Fellaini - his twin brother Mansour - posed for photos as the United player, who had been in the Blues boss' thoughts all week, did start the game at Stamford Bridge which Chelsea won 1-0 to move within two wins of the Premier League title.
2595
A massive rescue operation involving more than 1,300 people is now underway after the ship, carrying an international crew of 132, sank in the Sea of Okhotsk in just 15 minutes.
2596
Vin's extensive body art has taken him years to cultivate — while he now has 24 tattoos on his face and others on his arms, neck, chest, legs, and stomach, he started with a single rendering of the Le Coq Sportif logo when he was 16.
2597
Barcelona players were put through their paces as they put the finishing touches to preparations for the Champions League quarter-final clash with French giants PSG.
2598
Ed Miliband, speaking at Chatham House in London this morning, has hired a 'leadership consultancy' firm which coaches people to look 'authentic' and cope with anxiety, it has emerged .
2599
Root admitted that England need early wickets with the new ball, just as James Anderson achieved on day four .
'We'll see how tomorrow goes.
2600
Arrested: Waheed Ahmed, the 21-year-old son of a Labour councillor, has been held at Birmingham Airport after returning for allegedly trying to sneak into Syria with eight members of his family (pictured in Turkey) Convoy:
2601
Michelle says her beauty regime is fairly minimal and she simply cleanses, tones and moisturises every day and treats herself to a facial every other week to rehydrate her skin .
2602
Yesterday the Queen joined a service of remembrance at Westminster Abbey, where she laid a wreath at the Grave Of The Unknown Warrior.
2603
Pianist Laurie Holloway was invited to Buckingham Palace by Princess Margaret to accompany herself and The Queen for the performance which was recorded on a cassette tape.
2604
Many of them are incredible natural deceptions, such as Yellowstone National Park's Grand Prismatic Spring, which looks for all money in some photographs like a volcano but is in fact the first largest hot spring in the world.
2605
This chart shows that when the posted initial price is of a round number (the red dots), like $1,000, the average counteroffer is much lower than if it is a non-round number (the blue circles), like $1,079 .
2606
The two members of the Navy's elite sea, air, land teams were found at the bottom of the pool by another service member around 3pm local time at Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story.
2607
Jenson Button's miserable Formula One season continued in Bahrain after he failed to start the Bahrain Grand Prix.
2608
In her new book the 40-year-old television presenter revealed that Jerry was 'talking up Rebecca as a prelude to feeling up Rebecca', as he appeared to be a bit distracted while the couple posed for pictures .
Visit site .
2609
'This season, our player payments, paid under the salary cap, are forecast to be below that salary cap threshold of $2.55 million,' Glory chief executive Jason Brewer said.
2610
Surrey have signed Australia all-rounder Moises Henriques for this summer's NatWest T20 Blast.
2611
Bayern Munich playmaker Thiago admits coming on against Borussia Dortmund to make his first appearance in a year was an emotional moment and has thanked the German club.
2612
Paul Hellyer, who was a Canadian minister from 1963 to 1967, is now urging world powers to release what he believes to be hidden data on UFOs.
2613
Saman Barzanchi, the head of the Arbil health department, said Saturday that two ethnically Kurdish Turks were killed and eight people wounded.
2614
The club are letting it be known they have offered him a two-year deal with an option of a third year depending on the number of games played in the second year.
2615
England are set to face trial by leg-spin after West Indies captain Denesh Ramdin confirmed Devendra Bishoo will play in Tuesday's second Test.
2616
McIlroy is an avid Manchester United fan and the four-time major champion revealed last year he dreamed of playing for the Red Devils as a child.
2617
Australian citizen Bengali Sherrif has reportedly been sentenced to death after he and Queensland man Ibrahim Jalloh were arrested at Guangzhou airport (pictured) in June 2014 .
2618
Mrs Ellis faces the death penalty if she is found guilty of the charge of premeditated murder, which her two sons, Peter and John, said they are reconciled to.
2619
Molly Hennessey-Fiske, a reporter for the Los Angeles Times who has been covering proceedings against Durst, 71, after his mid-March arrest in Louisiana, received a letter purporting to have been written by the suspect in state prison.
2620
This means that for every £10 of health and social care costs attributable to each condition, £1.08 in research funding was spent on cancer, 65p on coronary heart disease, 19p on stroke, and just 8p on dementia, the researchers calculated.
2621
4 Whilst most involved in horse racing have a history with the sport, McCoy did not begin to work around horses until he was 13 – turning full-time at 15 when he left school.
Video Courtesy of www.racinguk.com .
2622
Tragic: Seven-week-old Grace Joy Roseman died after she managed to move over the edge of her adjustable cot and a 'safety' ridge cut off oxygen supply to her brain, West Sussex Coroner's Court heard .
2623
Rinko Kikuchi as Takako Konishi in the new film Kumiko, the Treasure Hunter, which tells the story of how the young Japanese woman went searching for a suitcase of cash which had been buried in the film Fargo .
2624
'Big Hero 6' is the highest grossing Disney films of all time in China, taking in more than $51 million .
2625
Chelsea are without Diego Costa for Sunday's Barclays Premier League clash at QPR following the striker's hamstring injury.
Chelsea 4/11 .
2626
My sister is so relieved and the family are ecstatic.
Mr Carn handed himself into the British Consulate this afternoon, after walking for 20 hours to find safety.
2627
Ian Henderson's 66th-minute goal won it for Dale who are five points adrift of the top six with two games to play and need Chesterfield or Sheffield United to drop points to get in the play-offs.
2628
The grey ‘stealth’ speed traps could be outlawed regardless of which party wins the general election, it has been suggested.
2629
The report said when they were not being taken out on excursions with tourists, the dogs  were being kept locked up in confined conditions in an unheated condemned building for long periods of time.
'Zematt has shown that it loves the animals and it will put an end to the contemptible and dangerous shows these dogs were made part of by being used as tourist props.
2630
One former prisoner who featured in a book (not pictured) about the cruelty which took place there says he agreed to have a layer of skin peeled of his back - only to be coated with searing chemicals .
2631
Van Gaal, who deployed Rooney in midfield after injuries to Michael Carrick, among others, was pleased with the chances created, but rued missing them.
2632
Replacing the trident deterrent with a ‘like for like’ system would cost around £100bn (file picture)
2633
Paris Saint-Germain forward Edinson Cavani has rejected rumours that he does not get on with team-mate Zlatan Ibrahimovic insisting the only issue he has is being played out of position.
2634
A campaign video  tells the story of a woman called Patricia, who slept rough on the streets of Brixton for six months and was forced to use makeshift sanitary products while menstruating.
2635
The move comes ahead of a giant military parade in Red Square on May 9 to mark the 70th anniversary of end of the Second World War, underscoring the decisive contribution of the Red Army to defeating the Nazis.
2636
Nicola Sturgeon has said she would work with Ed Miliband's left-wing backbenchers to ensure a Labour minority government did not pursue austerity.
2637
According to debt management specialist PayPlan, a third of parents in debt who have grown-up children living at home have been forced to take out a loan to meet the costs of housing and feeding them.
2638
A DVLA spokesman said: 'The changes have been widely publicised and we write to every vehicle keeper to remind them of the new rules before the vehicle tax expires.
2639
Baby one more time: Every now and again a Seventies or Nineties class is thrown into the mix, which Dooley says 'go off' 'My class is all about the simplicity of moves.
2640
It has been viewed more than 4,000 times.
The grisly sound of Vader's breathing is so iconic that it even has a trademark - or, rather, a 'soundmark'.
2641
President Barack . Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro shook hands last night ahead of a historic meeting which may see Cuba declassified as a state sponsor of terrorism.
2642
Callum is preparing to battle vastly different weather conditions and diverse terrains as he pounds the pavement right around Australia, raising funds for not-for-profit organisation HeartKids Australia - supporting thousands of children living with heart defects.
2643
The Yoaks say their aircraft was a 'celebration of our nation's armed forces', adding: 'Every aspect of the paint represents those who have served and those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.'
2644
'It doesn't matter.
'I missed my stop because I wanted to stay on and make sure they were OK,' said Ms Eden, who was on her way home to Mascot .
2645
'Well you know, Malia had asthma when she was four, and because we had good health insurance, we were able to knock it out early,' the president told ABC News’ chief health correspondent, Dr. Richard Besser, in an interview that aired on Good Morning America.
2646
Nike replaced Umbro as United's kit supplier in 2002 while Adidas are about to start their second stint with United, having designed the club's kits from 1980-92.
2647
As the end credits rolled following the BBC debate last night, four of the five party leaders shook hands with each other - but Mr Farage (right) just drank from a glass of water from behind his stand .
2648
Vulcan will use new engines, mid-air recovery and a new upper stage aimed at enabling complex on-orbit manoeuvres .
'We can take multiple satellites into orbit.
2649
Ms Scott's father (second from left) says he has contemplated the afterlife since Ms Scott's shocking death, but is confident that his sweet daughter is in 'the best possible place' after living a life full of love and happiness .
2650
Google Australia's managing director Maile Carnegie (left), Apple Australia Vice President Tony King  and Microsoft's Bill Semple appear at the inquiry .
2651
The newest generation of beauty products will be personalised to meet all your particular needs - from bespoke mascaras and eyeliners to foundations and powders unique to you.
2652
Huntsman are a breed of spiders notorious for their formidable size and speed, though their venom is not considered dangerous for humans .
2653
The Malmstrom missile wing operates 150 of the Air Force's 450 Minuteman 3 intercontinental ballistic missiles, or ICBMs.
Both officers were charged April 17.
2654
I think a lot of rugby league people look down on rugby union, and I think a lot of rugby union people look down on rugby league.
2655
She is now saving to pay for gender reassignment privately, using her work as an escort to fund her surgery.
I was born in the wrong body.
2656
Ms Sarmonikas' sister Andrea told 7 30 Report that the clinic in Mexicali attempted to convince Ms Sarmonikas boyfriend to have her body cremated before an official autopsy could be conducted .
2657
Father: Police say an inebriated Sergio Barrientos-Hinojosa had his 13-year-old son take him to buy beer at the gas station, where he got into an argument and started shooting at another customer .
2658
Philip Dunning 44, from Bo'ness, West Lothian, made the decision to give notice as shift manager at a food plant in the town within hours.
2659
Rory McIlroy is looking to join an elite group this week at the tender age of 25 years old when he tries to complete his career grand slam by winning the Masters.
2660
The fire was noticed at 3.40pm towards the end of the first half and within minutes the stand packed with 4,000 spectators was fully ablaze.
2661
But yesterday chairman Sir David Walker defended the bank’s decision to pay out £1.86billion in bonuses, including packages of more than £1million to 359 employees.
2662
Investigators said a collection of photos were found showing the girl being abused, but in one which did not feature abuse John Doe is seen posing with the girl, and there is a close up of his hand (left).
2663
As the video goes on the fly tries harder and harder to set itself free – beating its legs, heaving itself backwards and twisting slightly.
2664
The Met Office said most of Britain, including these three young women in Green Park, basked in sunshine today and will continue to enjoy good weather until Wednesday .
2665
The grandmother of brain cancer victim Ashya King has criticised police for spending more than £16,000 on the search for him.
 It's just a joke.
2666
James Demorges, left, who was inside for fraud, disappeared six years ago and Alvin Harris, right,  jailed for importing drugs, has been missing for 10 years.
2667
Spent on: Allegedly spent clearing the debts of Argentina FA; and unconfirmed sums paid by Qatar firm to sponsor November 2010 Argentina-Brazil friendly in Doha.
2668
The robots, collectively called Avert, are the creation of a European consortium led by the Democritus University of Thrace in Greece.
2669
The flanker returned to Wasps for the 2012 season after spells with Stade Francais, Ricoh Black Rams and Highlanders in New Zealand. Windsor-born
2670
During the programme, Ms McGirr described other hotels in Blackpool, Lancashire, as  'grim', in response to another couple's claims that there were cheaper places to stay in the area.
2671
The annual fire festival lasts for 11 days and sees dozens of participants dangle over the flames while a Hindu priest uses oil to stoke the blaze as he chants religious hymns.
2672
United, meanwhile, have made a revised contract offer to teenage prospect Andreas Pereira.
Manchester United have made a revised contract offer to 19-year-old Andreas Pereira (right)
2673
Chancellor George Osborne yesterday said the remarks showed Labour would bring back the ‘fuel duty escalator’, which raised the levy by the level of inflation plus 1p per litre, scrapped by the Coalition in 2011.
2674
Stacey Johnson (left), 22, from Much Hadham, Hertfordshire, had just been told her brain tumour had grown when she was dealt another blow - her sister Dannii, 20, also had a tumour .
2675
The 37-year-old, a qualifier this year, survived a series of twitches close to the winning line before clinching a 10-8 first-round victory over Ricky Walden at the Crucible in Sheffield on Sunday.
2676
Janet Brown was found naked, gagged with packing tape with her arms cuffed behind her back at the foot of the stairs of her family home in Radnage, near Chinnor in Buckinghamshire.
2677
Miracle mammals: You can spot dolphins at Cardigan Bay - the dolphin capital of Britain .
Time to visit: All year.
Details: www.rspb.org.uk .
2678
A gruesome video has emerged showing a masked Jihadi (pictured) beheading six men accused by Islamic State of exploding a car bomb in a Syrian city it controls .
2679
9-11 dispatch:
9-11:
9-11:
Duncan woman Joy Smith (right) leaves court after she told court how  she saw Mr Lane stumble and fall on the road.
2680
Team-mate Daniil Kvyat, however, was not so fortunate as the young Russian was forced to pull off track 19 minutes from the end of FP2 after his brakes caught fire.
2681
The £4.99 app is designed to teach people to use their common sense when it comes to eating, rather than sticking to rules and restrictions, and just eating when they are hungry.
2682
Patrick Randall (pictured) was 16 in May 1990 when he held a knife to Gregory Smart's throat as Billy Flynn, who was Pamela Smart's then-16-year-old lover, shot him in the head .
2683
Brendan Rodgers is considering recalling £20million misfit defender Dejan Lovren at Blackburn in the FA Cup on Wednesday to help save Liverpool’s season.
2684
But Britt McHenry, a Washington D.C.-based sports reporter for ESPN, has been suspended from her position after an ugly and offensive rant she unleashed on a hapless tow truck company employee surfaced online this week.
2685
Binky said that faux fur is one of her top tips for achieving Chelsea street style .
Binky says: ‘There’s nothing better than a simple dress that’s transferable from day to night time.
2686
Pritesh and Mansi Gandhi finally welcomed a baby boy, Krish, after losing six babies, after Pritesh's sister Hiral acted as a surrogate.
2687
Lisa Courtney, of Hertfordshire, has spent most of her life collecting Pokemon memorabilia of all shapes and sizes.
I bought mine for £60 online.
2688
The Statue of Liberty draws boats of tourists every day, but without the iconic lady, Liberty Island looks nothing special .
2689
He is best known for his part on the CBS sitcom Good Times, playing the husband of main character Thelma (right, played by Bern Nadette Stanis)
2690
An extremely rare species of shark has been discovered off the Gulf of Mexico.
Up from the deep: An extremely rare species of shark has been discovered off the Gulf of Mexico .
2691
United agreed a deal worth around £15million last summer which allowed Real Madrid to first loan Hernandez for the season then buy him outright before other clubs could bid.
2692
Subs .
Subs not used: Douchez, Camara, Bahebeck, Digne, Kimpembe .
Subs not used: Bravo, Pedro, Rafinha, Bartra .
Subs .
Man of the Match: Luis Suarez 8.5 .
2693
12-year-old Bluey has a growl which is louder than most cats can miaow, and has reached a maximum of 93 decibels - more than the official world record holder.
2694
Ellis, of Chiswick, west London, is accused of one count of indecent assault on a 14-year-old boy in 1973, one count of indecent assault on a 16-year-old boy in 1992 and four counts of making indecent images on or before July 8 last year.
2695
Kerrie Armitage, from Leeds, suffers from the ultra-rare condition aquagenic urticaria – an allergy to water.
New weals may then appear in other areas .
2696
Joseph Rice of the Oath Keepers (C) listens as Sugar Pine Mine owners George Backes (C) and Rick Barclay (R) address supporters at a rally outside the Bureau of Land Management's offices in Medford, Oregon April 23, 2015 .
2697
Although Larissa says there was nothing between her and Steve to begin with, a night out when she was 20 resulted in a liaison with her sister's partner - and the start of an affair.
2698
In a bid to make it easier to move around, Kyle changed into jeans, sneakers and a T-shirt for his wedding dance, while Nikki slipped into a knee-length dress.
2699
'We have to make a decision on the goalkeepers at the end of the season and if Fraser is out for a longer time, a new goalkeeper is an option.'
2700
Campaigning in Cornwall, Mr Cameron told House magazine: 'Definitely, we are not having another baby.'
Mrs Cameron said: 'I like the daughter in Newcastle.
2701
The Hennepin County Medical Examiner said the cause and manner of Barway's death are still being investigated.
'I wasn't...myself when I took the polygraph,' he said.
2702
Lewis Hamilton says his champagne-spraying of a grid girl after the Chinese Grand Prix was 'a fun thing' F1 championship leader Hamilton walks in the paddock ahead of the 2015 Bahrain Formula One Grand Prix .
2703
Juventus goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon has no immediate plans to retire and said it would be a waste to quit now when he feels he is still in top form.
2704
Skull fragments in some areas of their territory reveal that 50 per cent had dents in their heads caused by violent blows.
Pictured is the Cotahuasi Valley .
2705
A hidden camera filmed the moment a jilted 52-year-old music teacher ordered a 'hit' on a teenage pupil, after the 15-year-old ended their relationship. .
2706
Authorities are looking for the driver of a white, recent-model Nissan Altima captured on video at the car wash the same time the girl was abducted.
2707
The 36-year-old publican told Torquay Magistrates' Court that the last thing he could remember was going to bed at approximately 12.30am and then awoke beside his car which had been involved in a car crash.
2708
eight-year-old Lota Ward had already run several half marathons before being diagnosed with a brain tumor, and still continues to run despite his diagnosis .
2709
They found that the gibbons produced individual hoo calls in different situations, including when they were foraging, when they encountered neighbours, during duet songs between paired mates and when they detected predators.
2710
Chelsea midfielder Oscar hopes that winning the Premier League title this season can kick-start a period of dominance in English football for the Blues.
2711
Crystal Palace would sell coveted winger Yannick Bolasie for '£40million to £60million', according to manager Alan Pardew.
'So I'm going to address that.
2712
In the video, which shows the boy  giggling with delight, the blue and white robot dances approaches him and copies the child as he begins to turn on his wheels.
2713
AP McCoy’s last chance of a National winner before he retires has evaporated after Benvolio, his intended mount in this afternoon’s Coral Scottish National at Ayr was withdrawn.
2714
A man tore a tendon in his thumb after playing the game Candy Crush Saga on his phone for weeks - but reported he felt no pain at all (file photo)
2715
'(We) had a blip towards the end there but there is still plenty of batting left in that dressing room and fingers crossed we can kick on and make a big first innings score.'
2716
Anthony Corrales has filed a suit claiming he was almost killed by a retired NYPD officer who was then let off the hook by fellow cops .
2717
Crystal Palace (A) Lost 3-1, November 23, 2014 Reason: Hamstring and groin injuries .
Leicester (A) Won 1-3, December 2, 2014 Reason: Hamstring and groin injuries .
2718
The BBC has made light of disgraced presenter Jeremy Clarkson’s attack on a junior producer by poking fun at the incident in a comedy programme.
2719
Aston Villa manager Tim Sherwood has vowed to give pal Chris Ramsey the red-button treatment if he tries calling him ahead of Tuesday's crunch six-pointer.
2720
Authorities locked down the Suitland, Maryland campus just before 8pm Thursday amid reports that the shooter had barricaded himself somewhere inside after ramming the front gates.
2721
The 44-page document was commissioned by executives at the BBC who then hired an agency to research how smiley faces could be used in news stories and on social media.
2722
A three-year-old boy has shot dead a one-year-old baby after picking up a gun that had been left unattended in a Cleveland, Ohio, home, police said on Sunday night.
2723
'I'm very happy with Chelsea's season so far and happy with my own performance as well, but I do think I could have contributed more to the team.
2724
Dancing With The Stars co-host Erin Andrews surfaced for the first time after her NHL star boyfriend Jarret Stoll was busted at a pool party at the MGM Grand Hotel, allegedly with cocaine and Molly tucked into his swim trunks.
2725
Glenda Milham (left) suffered a fractured neck, while daughter, Michelle (right), had broken bones .
Daniel is now in a stable condition.
2726
Many Poles view the Night Wolves with suspicion because the pro-Putin bikers have rallied against the Ukrainian government and celebrated Russia's annexation of Crimea.
2727
The statement, written by her mother, continues that the child clings to her parent when in the presence of any black man.
Q:
Q:
Q: Has this crime resulted in any damages or loss of property?
2728
A fed up resident of Cammeray, a wealthy North Shore suburb, stuck a note to the windscreen of car parked near a school they believed belonged to an outsiders.
2729
Celebrities such as Kate Middleton, who proudly wore a Ceylon sapphire once owned by Princess Diana as her engagement ring, have driven the craze.
2730
'Every game is a chance to get a result – and that starts on Sunday,' said Advocaat, who could start Adam Johnson for the first time following his arrest on suspicion of sexual activity with a 15-year-old girl.
2731
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge leave the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, central London, with their newborn  son Prince George in July 2013 .
2732
To veil or not to veil: Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has sparked a debate over her choice to wear a scarf during her visit to Iran .
2733
The feel-good factor at Everton continued to grow after many of the club's first-team players attended the annual 'Academy Day' at Finch Farm on Tuesday.
2734
Maglio has admitted spiking a drink of Baileys liqueur belonging to the 16-year-old with a sedative, and when asked why he told police: 'I am stupid, there was no real reason'
2735
The Giants have plummeted from third to ninth after losing all three games over the Easter holiday period but they go into Sunday's home game against Catalans Dragons with the best defensive record in the league.
2736
Secret cameras at an east London boozer showed that men are more likely to discuss sexual problems and relationship issues than the weekend's football matches .
2737
The 216 prisoners have been held captive in the Islamic State since last summer when militants attacked their villages in the area around Sinjar in northwestern Iraq.
2738
I dun get it,' one tweet from the account read.
Two people were taken away by police officers after they rushed the stage and attempted to disrupt the rally .
2739
'Actual Torture':
One hilarious doodle in the book simply shows the absolute exhaustion of parents in the first year after having their new baby.
2740
'I have to find a method of trying to play now that might not be pretty on the eye, but I need to find a way of getting some results, getting some points.
2741
Sian Harkin, 54, gave £30,000 to a builder using the school chequebook claiming the work was to be carried out at Llwyncelyn Primary School in Porth, when the work was actually carried out at her home .
2742
A cloud formation resembling the Wi-Fi symbol appeared recently in the sky of Xiangtan city in Hunan Province, the People's Daily Online reports.
2743
There are 59,270 Mini Cooper and Cooper S models made between 2005 and 2006 affected by the issue along with 32,530  convertibles made between 2005 and July 2008, according to Bloomberg.
2744
The incident took place in Olani village, four kilometres from Manpur, in central India and was recorded by terrified villagers from the relative safety of hut rooftops.
2745
Borussia Dortmund coach Jurgen Klopp does not expect any particular reaction from his players or the fans to his announcement that he will be leaving the club in the summer.
2746
Miss Lawrence, who was 35 when she disappeared, was last seen on March 18, 2009.
2009 .
March 18 .
March 19 .
March 18 .
2013 .
March 19 .
A 59-year-old man is arrested on suspicion of murder by detectives investigating the disappearance, and later released without charge .
2747
TV celebrity doctor Mehmet Oz has defended himself after ten top doctors sent a letter to Columbia University urging the school to remove him from his faculty position because he is a 'charlatan' who promotes 'quack treatments'.
2748
A team of FBI investigators boarded the MS Ryndam after a Cleveland couple were found dead in an apparent murder-suicide as the ship docked in San Juan, Puerto Rico .
2749
Watford: Gomes 7; Motta 3, Cathcart 6.5, Angella 6, Hoban 6; Layun 6 (Anya 64’ 5), Watson 6.5, Guedioura 6.5; Ighalo 7 (Connolly 77’ 5); Deeney 6, Vydra 7 (Tozser 46’ 6)
2750
Campaigners, police and MPs have accused Alison Saunders, the director of Public Prosecutions, of ignoring the rights of victims and failing to clear speculation of a cover-up over her decision to spare Lord Janner .
2751
Heroic: Alyssa McKenna, 9 (right), saved her 11-year-old brother, Elijah (left) from a pack of vicious dogs .
As of Monday, they were still seen in a neighbor's yard .
2752
His fraud was only uncovered after the association had problems paying its creditors and Howard started to dodge emails and phone calls.
2753
Rarely, if ever, does the Portuguese coach not know what to say.
'Jose, you said you've been pushed very hard this season, how hard did Arsene Wenger push you?'
2754
Mr Cameron also suffered less badly from negative appraisals, with 49 per cent of undecided voters saying they were ‘unimpressed’ with his performance and 54 per cent saying the same of Mr Miliband (pictured)
2755
However, in the case of Annabel Jensen, Grayson Moore and Sara Jade Woodhouse, they have found a way to exist within the Mormon universe - often with the help of local Mormon leaders.
2756
Morgellons disease has been described by those who suffer from it as causing fatigue and memory loss, while also leading to large sores on the body which are constantly itching to the sensation of bugs or parasites crawling underneath the skin.
2757
McCoy, who doesn’t play tennis, has challenged Channel 4 presenter Emma Spencer, herself a tidy player, to a match with a tasty side bet riding on the outcome.
2758
Bristol City's Aaron Wilbraham (left) tussles for the ball with Swindon Town's Yaser Kasim (right) Swindon Town's Michael Smith (left) shields the ball from the challenge of the oncoming Luke Ayling (right)
2759
Shane Warne hailed Richie Benaud as the 'godfather of cricket' following the former Australia captain and broadcaster's death at the age of 84.
2760
Cristiano Ronaldo scored five, including a eight-minute hat-trick, as Real Madrid beat sorry Granada 9-1.
Booked: Arbeloa .
Booked: Piti, Murillo .
2761
Comedian Frankie Boyle (right) has previously criticised the BBC about its cautious attitude towards comedy .
2762
Cristiano Ronaldo sits dejected during Real's 4-0 La Liga defeat to Atletico back in February .
UEFA Champions League 2013-14 . UEFA Super Cup 2014 .
2763
But those two - plus Cristiano Ronaldo, Carlos Tevez, Paul Pogba and Gerard Pique - have all made the semi-finals in their former club's absence from the competition.
2764
Supermodel Kate Moss at the age of 30 in 2004 (left), now at the age of 41 (right) Kate Moss was, and still remains, one of the most famous supermodels in the world, rising to fame in the Nineties after she was discovered at the tender age of 14.
2765
Defending champion Czech Republic reached the fourth Fed Cup final in five years by defeating France after Petra Kvitova won the first reverse singles Sunday.
2766
Kris said Katrina, who was known as Tina, already had two children when they met and was a devoted mother when they fell in love in 2002 when her son Mark was ten years old.
2767
Yesterday, jurors at Brighton Crown Court (above) were shown dramatic footage of the moment police arrived at the couple’s home to be greeted by a ‘calm’ Mr O’Riordan opening the door .
2768
The Tories last night accused Ms Siddiq of trying to conceal her extraordinary links to Russian President Vladimir Putin (pictured)
2769
It appears DMX had been in New Jersey on Saturday night because he was scheduled to perform at the Master of Ceremony concert at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center.
2770
But, when asked about his relationship with his father, Downey Jnr gets up and says: 'I'm sorry, I really don't... what are we doing?' before walking out of the interview.
2771
A Soviet dissident who spent 12 years in prison and forced labour camps is to be charged with making and possessing indecent images of children after a police investigation.
2772
Burger King will be paying the expenses and providing gifts for the wedding of an Illinois couple after Joel Burger and Ashley King accepted the company's payment proposal on Monday.
2773
While their ancestors before them may have eaten meat they scavenged or from small prey they were able to catch, hunting parties suggests Homo erectus went after larger prey.
2774
In what is being described as a horrific accident, 20-month-old Kendra Moad of Kearns, Utah followed her grandfather, who has not been named, out of the house as he pulled his truck forward so he could move some garbage cans.
2775
Adelaide is a much softer city than Sydney.
A trip to Adelaide's Central Market is enough to convince us that Adelaide is the true food capital of Australia .
2776
Hearts fans favourite Ozturk inferred that the decision not to have a guard of honour showed a lack of respect by Hibs, while boss Neilson claimed it could backfire on them on the pitch.
2777
Bob Barker Captain Peter Hammarstedt said 35 crew members, who abandoned the sinking ship, were safely rescued  off the coast of Africa after being held in life rafts.
2778
Two long-time friends and their four sons traveled from Montreal, Quebec to Corbin, Kentucky to eat at the original home of Kentucky Fried Chicken (above left to right: Jason Lutfy, Sebastien Lutfy, Neil Janna, Jesse Janna, Josh Janna and Brian Lutfy)
2779
‘The most important of those five games is against Crystal Palace, because it is the next one. ‘If we get a good result against Palace, the thinking might change as to how many points we need.
2780
Locations in Ceredigion, Powys and Pembrokeshire in west Wales, illustrated above, are being used to radicalise Muslims, according to an officer from the Wales Extremism and Counter Terrorism Unit .
2781
Kate Winslet is to face a battle with Natural England over plans to build a 550ft-long wall to protect her £3.25 million beachside home from flooding and erosion.
2782
United traditionally stage a pre-season friendly at Old Trafford and August 1 would seem a logical choice .
2783
Mr Ratcliffe is seeking to demolish the existing house on the site and replace it with the new mansion .
There used to be a much bigger house on that site.
2784
The Biancoceleste are riding a seven-game winning streak in Serie A and won 1-0 at Napoli on Wednesday to reach their eighth Coppa Italia final.
2785
New research has found that certain items on sale at Poundland, pictured, are up to 50 per cent more expensive than those sold in supermarkets .
2786
A sickening propaganda image linked to the Islamic State terrorist group has surfaced showing a newborn baby sleeping next to a grenade, a handgun and what appears to be a birth certificate.
2787
The men, pictured in southern China, release a cormorant bird, which then dives into the water and retrieves a carp, returning it to the fisherman's reed raft.
2788
South Sydney hooker Issac Luke is at the centre of a homophobic accusation after posting an offensive comment on social media in response to attacks from Canterbury Bulldogs fans.
2789
Our attachment to the coast is strong.
Popular television series explore it, gliding over the cliffs by helicopter as if in a dream and coastal paths are never short of walkers .
2790
Analysts employed at US intelligence agencies like the CIA, NSA, and National Counterterrorism Center who watch graphic videos all day receive treatment from specialist psychologists to help them deal with the emotional trauma they experience.
2791
His image of Dwayne Bravo shows the player taking a breathtaking full-length catch for the West Indies to dismiss Australia’s James Faulkner during last year’s ICC World Twenty20 competition in Bangladesh.
2792
Mr Dearman, who has appeared in films including the Hitman and on the stage, told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire TV show: 'They'd said we were killing babies, I was shipping them in, we would cut the babies' throats and drain their blood and then would drink the blood.
2793
Spieth was four shots ahead and looking at a two-shot swing on the 16th when Rose had 15 feet for birdie and Spieth faced an 8-foot putt for par.
2794
Portsmouth have sacked manager Andy Awford following Saturday's 3-1 defeat by Morecambe.
Portsmouth have sacked manager Andy Awford following Saturday's 3-1 defeat to Morecambe .
2795
On Saturday violence erupted on the U.S border after security forces arrested one of the area's most influential drug dealers .
2796
While the record temperatures are only going to last two days, the weather is expected to remain warmer than the average April high of 14.2C (57.6F).
2797
LeBron James dealt his former team Miami's play-off hopes a major blow as he scored 23 points in the Cavaliers' win over the Heat on Thursday.
2798
A contestant on The Price is Right has walked away with a $21,960 car for free courtesy of a dumb mistake by the model hired to reveal the answers on the daytime quiz show.
2799
At the Clapham branch Patel grabbed a brand-new iPhone six worth £600, a £1,500 ring, a Rolex Oyster watch worth £2,500, a £150 designer purse, three credit cards and £910 in cash belonging to Oliver Budworth.
2800
South Korea's Kim Sei-young spectacularly eagled the par-five 18th to surge into a two-shot lead in the second round of the ANA Inspiration on Friday as Lydia Ko's record-equalling run came to an end.
2801
When brain tissue from the area of the brain called the amygdala was examined, rats given alcohol showed changes to their DNA, known as epigenetic changes.
2802
Esteban Cambiasso says that helping keep Leicester in the Premier League will feel like winning a trophy .
Serie A (5) Coppa Italia (4) Supercoppa (4) FIFA Club World Cup .
2803
The last time Real beat Atletico was in last season's Champions League final when Sergio Ramos scored in the 93rd minute to take the game to extra-time, before Gareth Bale, Marcelo and Cristiano Ronaldo made it 4-1.
2804
Charlie Adam struck a stunning goal from inside his own half against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge .
An even greater rarity - a headed goal from a player in his own half.
2805
Going for grey: A viewer takes to Twitter to insist the dress he saw was grey .
Another said viewers debating the colour of the dress were missing the point of the evening .
2806
Tony Pulis insists West Brom chairman Jeremy Peace has given him his word any takeover will not drag on.
'I think he wants it to be with the right people.
2807
Yorkshire have signed India international Cheteshwar Pujara until the end of May after cancelling the contract of Younis Khan.
2808
Andre Ayew is out of contract at Marseille this summer, and Swansea have joined the chase for his signature .
2809
A spokeswoman for the school, which charges £33,000-a-year, said parents had been satisfied by the prompt actions of the school after staff discovered they had been teaching the wrong English text .
2810
John Tuite, 22, and Carlos Santolalla, 25, go by the Brangelina-like portmanteau Jarlos, and have already earned a following in the modeling world and on New York City's party scene.
2811
The City playmaker soon had a chance of his own after sparking a move that saw Craig Noone find him on the edge of the box, but his low drive flew just wide.
2812
Poppers on the size allow the width to be adjusted as the child's feet expand while a strap on the toe can be moved to make the shoe longer.
2813
A 73-year-old councillor stabbed his wife eight times with a seven-inch kitchen knife after discovering she was having an affair with the postman, a court heard.
2814
Raymond Howell Jr.'s body was found near a culvert alongside a busy road in McKinney, Texas - around four miles from where he attended school at McKinney Boyd High - on Thursday.
2815
Thousands of sobbing students and teachers prayed and comforted one another on Georgia Southern University's campus Thursday night during an emotional memorial service for five nursing students who were killed in a fiery crash.
2816
Anthony Davis had 31 points and 13 rebounds as the New Orleans Pelicans earned their first play-off berth since 2011 with a 108-103 victory over the San Antonio Spurs on Wednesday.
2817
During tense exchanges with the BBC’s Andrew Marr, the Chancellor repeatedly ducked questions about exactly how the massive cash boost would be paid for.
2818
Holly went from 17st 8lb to a slim 11st 9lb in just nine months after joining Weight Watchers .
Steve has gone from 23st 7lb to a healthier 18st 7lb since June last year .
2819
The 20-room hotel describes itself as a 'temple to hedonism,' and the property's butlers are on hand to assist guests with everything and anything they desire.
2820
They have been arrested and face child abuse charges, while Lachaux is also charged with concealing evidence after the toddler's badly decomposed body was found in the garage.
2821
Bruce Jenner revealed he is a Republican and a Christian during the much-anticipated interview in which he revealed he is transitioning to be a woman.
2822
Mazzy, who suffers from Spina Bifida, was on board a Southwest Airlines flight over the US when the entire airplane sang her happy birthday and moved her to tears earlier this month.
2823
The supermarket giant has encouraged employees to dance in the store in whatever style they see fit.
'But this also ties in with attempts to smarten up Tesco stores.
2824
Former Holland forward Dirk Kuyt is returning to Feyenoord next season, aiming to end his professional playing days at the club that was a launching pad for nine years at Liverpool and Fenerbahce, the Rotterdam club announced Friday.
2825
Leading a team of  five doctors, he also carried out a nine hour operation to remove more of the metal, yet Mr Singh will still need another operation to remove the rest.
2826
Mr Springall gave permission for his friend, Brian, to post the image to Reddit - where it became a topic of 'mostly negative' discussion - until it resurfaced this week .
2827
Police said Friday that they're trying to find a couple and five children who left a North Las Vegas home where a 3-year-old girl was found dead and a 4-month-old girl was so badly neglected by her 17-year-old mother that the child was hospitalized in critical condition.
2828
Be a good boy.'
The Tory campaign was boosted by a new poll which suggested they have pulled away a six point lead over Labour .
2829
A southern Iowa chiropractor accused of accepting sex as payment for his services and performing exorcisms on patients has surrendered his state license.
2830
Confirming the approach, the Rajasthan franchise said the player immediately reported the incident to the Indian cricket board's (BCCI) Anti-Corruption and Security Unit.
2831
Former Manchester United midfielder Quinton Fortune claims Neymar looked a shadow of his former self during Barcelona's slender 1-0 La Liga win over Celta Vigo.
2832
Erin Kimmerle, associate professor of anthropology at USF, said that this research could potentially help solve the more than 500 cold cases in Hillsborough, Pasco and Pinellas counties .
2833
The 12-year-old victim, who is yet to be named, was walking in a subway (pictured) underneath a road in Newbury, Berkshire, when two boys approached him, doused him in WD40 and vowed to set him alight .
2834
You'll Never Walk Alone.'
Ali pictured with Liverpool star Raheem Sterling at Anfield in a picture posted on his Twitter account .
2835
Downton was a supporter of Cook as Test captain but was persuaded to sack him as one-day captain three weeks before the disastrous World Cup campaign.
Verdict: Vulnerable.
2836
Charles Tillman has concluded his storied 12-year career with the Chicago Bears.
There's a good group of guys here like Thomas Davis, Greg Olsen, Luke Kuechly and Cam Newton.
2837
Hull boss Steve Bruce has admitted his side need to pull off a couple of 'crazy results' if they are to preserve their Premier League status in a frantic end-of-season run-in.
2838
John Terry celebrates after the Premier League match between Arsenal and Chelsea at Emirates Stadium .
After recent results, people say Manuel Pellegrini is a dead man walking.
2839
NRL head of football Todd Greenberg has vowed to issue Canterbury fans who threw bottles at match officials with life-time bans.
2840
The facility is the first of its kind at the White House and according to spokesman Jeff Tiller it’s something that fits in with the administration’s stance on LGBT issues.
2841
We're getting better all the time.'
Duggan said: 'We won the Continental Cup last season and hopefully we can continue that in the Super League this year.
2842
Before: The Black Caucus of the American Library Association donated the tree and memorial plaque and it was planted in January-Wabash Park in Ferguson, Missouri on Saturday (pictured)
2843
Behind bars: The suspects who engaged in a shootout with police in a Cottonwood, Arizona Walmart parking lot on Saturday have been identified as eight members of a Idaho family band.
2844
Tommy Connolly, a 23-year-old Sunshine Coast University student, took in his homeless, pregnant 17-year-old cousin and his helping her raise her four-week-old baby boy .
2845
The couple's youngest son, Brody (left), was 18 months old and Brandon (right) was three when Bruce revealed to Linda (center) the secret that he finally told the world Friday night - that he identified as a woman .
2846
He has scored 11 times in nine La Liga encounters, including a hat-trick in a 4-2 home win in January 2011 (plus an assist for good measure).
2847
Nigel Farage has dismissed criticism of the lack of diversity in Ukip's manifesto by claiming there was a 'half black' party spokesman featured prominently - and 'one fully black person'.
2848
Fashion designer Diane Von Furstenberg, 68 (left),  has been open about her age, saying 'I feel that I have lived so fully that I should be twice my age' while Miuccia Prada, 65, who owns the famous Italian Prada label, has spoken of her desire to get into politics...
2849
Atletico Madrid striker Mario Mandzukic is still bruised from a physical Champions League quarter-final first leg against Real Madrid but is expected to be fit for the return at the Bernabeu on Wednesday, said coach Diego Simeone.
2850
Most ATMs are free to use, but those in places such as nightclubs and some corner shops can charge around £1.50 to withdraw cash.
2851
Albert Webb, 51, and sons Jimmy Chuter, 26, and Jesse Webb, 19, followed people aged up to 97 home from the Post Office after they had collected their pensions before demanding the cash.
2852
An elderly woman is in critical condition after being run over by her husband as he smashed into three cars whilst attempting to parallel park.
2853
Australia’s Jason Day (14-1) and Adam Scott (20-1), and Sweden’s Henrik Stenson (22-1) are joined by American gunslingers Dustin Johnson (16-1) and Jimmy Walker (22-1) as the big hitters who have shown best form so far this year.
2854
Ryan Hall was sent to the sin-bin for the first time in his career in a frenetic opening but Castleford failed to take advantage and it was the Rhinos who struck first as Joel Moon scored his first try of the season.
2855
German banking giant Deutsche Bank will pay $2.5 billion in fines for its role in a vast multi-year conspiracy to rig LIBOR interest rates, US and British authorities said on Thursday.
2856
The SNP leader has denied telling French ambassador Sylvie Bermann that she would prefer David Cameron to remain in Number 10 while suggesting that Ed Miliband was not Prime Minister material.
2857
During his career, Castro also served as an American ambassador to three countries including El Salvador, Bolivia and Argentina.
I had more authority.'
2858
US President Barack Obama said on Saturday that diplomacy was the best option to deal with Iran's contested nuclear program, two days after the conclusion of a framework agreement with Tehran.
2859
While some countries have now banned new charter flights from any Thai airlines, Australia has 'increased the number of ramp inspections of Thai Airways flights operating into Australia'.
2860
Visit site .
Her role as Kevin Spacey's on-screen wife has already won her a Golden Globe for Best TV Actress, and her House Of Cards wardrobe has inspired millions of women around the globe.
2861
San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said last week that he was 'disturbed and troubled' by the video and that an internal investigation is underway into  the deputies' actions.
2862
Mauricio Pochettino believes Harry Kane deserves to pip Eden Hazard to the player of the year award.
It's not a pre-season tour where you spend maybe 14-15 days away.
2863
1 Watford 85pts To play Apr 25 Brighton (a), May 2 Sheff Wed (h) 2 Bournemouth 84pts Apr 27 Bolton (h), May 2 Charlton (a) 3 Middlesbrough 84pts Apr 25 Fulham (a), May 2 Brighton (h)
2864
Ms Sturgeon has  vehemently criticised David Cameron's pledge to hold an in-out referendum on Europe .
2865
Portland Timbers and Orlando City walk onto the field ahead of an MLS match in Oregon earlier this month .
Hopefully it will be a good summer.
2866
Mr Hut, who came prepared with Prince and Princess balloons, is a veteran of several royal births and spent 12 days camping outside the Lindo Wing ahead of Prince George's birth.
2867
The mother of the Duchess of Cambridge emailed customers of her Party Pieces firm yesterday, recommending the Chevron Divine tablewear range for parents-to-be.
2868
Comcast today confirmed it has abandoned its bid to buy Time Warner Cable for $45.2billion and  create a mega-size TV and internet provider.
2869
Three quarters of all species on Earth died out in the Late Devonian mass extinction, though it may have been a series of extinctions over several million years.
2870
However they struggled to fit their large loot into the boot and lost about a third of it as they dragged the stash alongside the car during their getaway.
2871
Jonathan Schochor, the suit's lead attorney, says he and the other attorneys won't challenge the judge's order.
He committed suicide ten days later.
2872
Not surprisingly, The Iron Lady was condemned by many in the British film establishment for being ‘shallow’ and ‘superficial’, an example of ‘self-important’ film-making.
2873
Looking for answers: New York-based writer Danielle Page (not pictured) set out to ask every cabbie she came across to dispense their best piece of relationship advice . 'Always think of what’s best for the other person.
2874
Kanta suffered a leg injury after the crocodile grabbed her right leg and dragged her into the murky river .
There are more than 200 crocodiles in the Vishwamitri River.
2875
Victor Moses has returned to parent club Chelsea for treatment after injuring a hamstring against West Ham .
2876
The 73-year-old - who rose to fame as part of Simon & Garfunkel - has forged ahead of more youthful musicians to reach number one in the UK album chart with The Ultimate Collection.
2877
And just to add a bit of cheek, Mr Cook says he will be adding fairy lights to the structure tonight and plans to add an extra two calves to complete the sculpture.
2878
Charlesetta Taylor, 79, has lived in her home for 70 years, and was a member of the first African-American family to live in her neighborhood, and now it and 49 others, may be bulldozed.
2879
Nurses spent their day off doing Hurd's nails, makeup and hair, getting music and a cake, and decorating her room with streamers and balloons, according to Live Well Nebraska.
2880
Pietersen and current England coach Peter Moores have a fractious relationship but even proud Yorkeshireman Gough believes the former Lancashire coach must be give a bit more time - despite last month's World Cup horror show.
2881
The team behind Doctor Who is fighting plans by BBC boss Danny Cohen to turn the global hit series into a Hollywood blockbuster, leaked Sony emails have revealed.
2882
A cut so small it was barely visible became infected, triggering the flesh-eating infection, necrotizing faciitis .
Mr Murphy said he is grateful to be alive.
2883
He makes a joking reference to Jenner's (above) transition while speaking with Amy Pascal (right) While discussing his upcoming film Aloha, which stars an all-star cast that includes Bradley Cooper, Emma Stone, Rachel McAdams, and Alec Baldwin
2884
Former Huddersfield centre Josh Griffin scored a try and kicked three goals as improving Salford secured back-to-back Super League wins with an 18-12 triumph at the John Smith's Stadium.
2885
Ferrari mechanics show their joy after Vettel won the Malaysian Grand Prix, helping record the team's first Formula One win since 2013 at the Spanish Grand Prix .
2886
She would snack on Twix bars, crisps and fizzy drinks throughout the day.
She snacked on portions of nuts throughout the day, and was careful to drink plenty of water.
2887
The video was uploaded to Twitter on Tuesday morning by popular Sydney radio duo Fitzy and Wippa, before quickly being reposted by a spell of other sources.
2888
Music streaming service Spotify has analysed 2.8 million 'sleep' playlists and revealed that Ed Sheeran's hit song, Thinking Out Loud, is the top song that people fall asleep to .
2889
The clip, which was created by HLN's The Daily Share, illustrates the prevalence of this 'women's tax' to shocking affect by directly comparinga variety of different products and services aimed at men and women and then revealing the price differences.
2890
A mother was holding the two-year-old boy and another child when the toddler slipped and fell into the cheetah exhibit at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo (file photo of cheetahs at the Cleveland zoo)
2891
A mother has released images of her teenage son who suffered serious injuries after he was assaulted at an Adelaide train station on Saturday night.
2892
However, a new official study puts the real figure at an average of 2.5 times faster - 14.7 megabits per second compared to 5.9Mbit/s per second on the 3G service that most people use.
2893
'This is a big step forward to getting what we are ultimately seeking: the right to bodily liberty for chimpanzees and other cognitively complex animals,' Natalie Prosin, the Executive Director of the Nonhuman Rights Project (NhRP) told the AAAS.
2894
Julian Speroni will be at Crystal Palace for another year at least after triggering a 12-month contract extension .
2895
His warm words for the Tories are all the more remarkable, bearing in mind that, around the corner, Conservative chiefs have sent extra teams of canvassers to Twickenham to try to 'decapitate' Mr Cable .
2896
Cody Neatis, eight, has been in hospital for a week with a chest infection but has had to sleep on a mattress on the floor as the hospital doesn't have a suitable bed for him to sleep in .
2897
The 37-year-old finished sixth on his Masters debut in 2004 and actually led in 2007 after five holes of the final round.
2898
Had Manchester City won their games against Crystal Palace and Manchester United, talk of Liverpool being Champions League contenders would have been risible but the implosion at the Etihad Stadium has thrown things wide open.
2899
The dad argues that he 'deserves to have his parental rights to see his child reinstated, the charges against him dropped by a court and the right to decide the treatment options for his own child'
2900
Their bodies are left on the road.
The bodies of each of the helpless men, thought to be aged between 35 and 45, were then left on the road .
2901
And finally, Game of Thrones enthusiasts will undoubtedly recognise the north of Iceland, namely Thingvellir National Park, from Arya’s storyline and as the setting of the battle of the Hound and Brienne, in the North of Westeros.
2902
Kevin Rebbie, 56, of Limerick Township, Pennsylvania, was arrested after a 15-year-old girl found a hidden camera in her bathroom that police were able to trace back to the man .
2903
Taylor scored the winner at the Stadium of Light three seasons ago, affording him a terrace tribute – 'Ryan Taylor, over the wall' – as well as a place in black-and-white folklore.
2904
Disgraced NBC anchor Brian Williams (pictured) has threatened to make his departure from the channel 'really ugly', it has been reported .
2905
‘I don’t quite know,’ he said, head shaking.
Steve Cotteril has taken Bristol City to the brink of a Championship return after two seasons in League One .
2906
Some parents of identical twins have observed them having identical dreams or even suffering pain in the same parts of the body .
2907
Mark Ward Faville, of Christiansburg, Virginia, was found guilty of voluntary manslaughter in the death of his wife Anne, who died in 2000 after being suffocated in a homicidal manner.
2908
That was the day that I was taken from my home and my family, but that day has not changed how close my family continues to be.
2909
Hillary Clinton met a few employees at Kristin's Bakery in Keene, New Hampshire on Monday as her presidential campaign in the Granite State got underway, but some in the kitchen refused to be seen with her .
2910
But in this incredible video, one passenger captured the moment two passenger aircraft landed perfectly in sync at San Francisco International Airport.
2911
Despite thousands of foreign fighters flocking to join the Sunni extremist group and starring in their propaganda videos, ISIS' leadership is dominated by ex-members of the military of Saddam Hussein (pictured) Militants:
2912
Toby Alderweireld will return to Atletico Madrid when his season-long loan finishes at Southampton, according to the Spanish club's sporting director Jose Luis Perez Caminero.
2913
The moniker has also been used by two kings of Britain as a whole, James I and James II, and another five Scottish monarchs.
Louis 25/1 .
2914
A survey by the Association of School and College Leaders (ASCL) found that 44 per cent of respondents had vacancies in English, 52 per cent in maths and 50 per cent in science.
2915
Hamilton is making his first live-action cameo on the big screen having previously lent his voice to Disney animation Cars 2.
Zoolander 2 will hit UK and US cinemas on February 12, 2016 .
2916
Riddick Bowe was once seen as the world's best heavyweight fighter and reportedly had $15million, but he is now offering to post tweets for $20 .
2917
A young cancer sufferer who proposed to his girlfriend hoping surgery would save his life is set to marry in hospital after being told he's too ill for the operation and has just weeks to live.
2918
Labour parliamentary candidate Rupa Huq (left) says she felt no shame in accepting a £1,000 donation from Tony Blair, despite campaigning heavily against the Iraq War .
2919
Justine Jones was left covered in huge sores and in agony after opening the bottle of Tesco Finest Garnacha wine to celebrate her daughter's birthday.
2920
The man will face Brisbane Magistrate's Court on the morning of Saturday's 100th Anzac Day commemoration service where tens of thousands will gather around the Eternal Flame of Remembrance in Anzac Square to pay their respects to our fallen service men and women.
2921
Today the watchdog will upgrade the 'inadequate' finding to 'requires improvement' and publish a glowing report .
2922
Melissa owns a large mansion in the town of Nueva Italia – the centre of Knights Templar heartland - and shares them with her three big cats, which is a  status symbol in Mexico.
2923
Britain's failure to follow suit – thanks to a target imposed by David Cameron – means that its overseas aid spending of 0.7 per cent of national income is double the average level of the other nations in the group known as the Development Assistance Committee.
2924
Laura Lefebvre (left) and Josi Harrison (right) are two of three girls who have won a civil claim against their school district for failing to support them after being bullied into sending naked pictures to boyfriends .
2925
Japanese photographer Yûki Aoyama's latest series of images capture po-faced teenagers pictured next to their fathers leaping into the air.
2926
Ozil took to Instagram to share his joy at his latest gift, comparing his gadget to former TV character Michael Knight from the hit action show Knight Rider.
2927
Manchester United took another step closer to securing a Champions League spot as they thumped rivals Manchester City at Old Trafford on Sunday afternoon.
2928
Paul is 52 years old.
Per The Blaze, some related questions asked about Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) was 'Where was Ted Cruz born?' and 'How old is Ted Cruz?'
2929
The father told WPVI that he and his partner are raising a happy, well-adjusted family that is involved in activities such as youth car racing.
2930
On April 3 Kim watched Murray, 27, beat Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic in their semi-final match in a high necked black mini dress accompanied with her trusty Ray-ban glasses and straw hat.
2931
The 19-time champion jockey could have ridden Cause of Causes who, like his mount Shutthefrontdoor, is owned by his boss JP McManus.
2932
Responding to the criticism yesterday, Mr Symonds insisted he was not a Lib-Dem activist and said he would never let his political views interfere with his Wikipedia work.
2933
An Irish rugby player suffered one of the most gruesome ear injuries you're likely to see while playing for Heriot's Rugby Club against the Barbarians.
2934
Sir Nick Faldo will now know for sure whether Rory McIlroy is bulking up too much after appearing to give the world No 1 a squeeze during Monday's practice round at Augusta National.
2935
Odds on the second royal baby being called Sam have been slashed, following the success of Sam Waley-Cohen at Aintree, the Duchess' close friend .
2936
The 27-year-old has scored twice in 27 Premier League appearances for the Eagles this season as they currently sit 11th in the table.
2937
No love is lost between Mourinho and Pellegrini, but the Chelsea manager said: 'I'm surprised a team that won two titles in three years and are still champions can be brought to hell.
2938
For the first time since in 100 years, Arsenal will not start the season at the summit of England's top-flight, following the effective promotion of Bournemouth on Monday.
2939
Furious Blackpool supporters pelted the directors' box and main reception area at Bloomfield Road with a flare, a smoke bomb, fireworks and eggs before their game with Reading.
2940
Coles, 52, is now a regular on TV and radio, but on Sundays he performs at his 14th century parish church, St Mary the Virgin, in Finedon, Northamptonshire.
2941
Judge Mace told Blackman, who temporarily resides in a hotel in Blackpool using the £125 living allowance he receives from the club, that he would be more than capable of carrying out unpaid work before the new season begins.
2942
The 34-year-old mom, who married rapper Kanye West in May last year, spoke with Elle.com about her daughter's budding independence and style preferences while sharing her approach to being a businesswoman, mother, wife and dressing her post-baby body.
2943
An arrest warrant has reportedly been issued for , Xiangnan Li, 23 (right), the boyfriend of Tong Shaom 20 (left), a University of Iowa student found murdered in September after going missing .
2944
Mr Goodwin was knighted for ‘services to banking’ in 2004 but was stripped of his title in 2012 .
Chief executive Ross McEwan said: ‘This is going to be another tough year.
2945
The commercial ship was unaware of the unfolding disaster and went on its journey, leaving men, women and children in the water before an Italian naval vessel arrived at the site some 80 miles south of the island of Lampedusa.
2946
Mrs May said: ‘A Conservative government would require the police to be recording Muslim hate crime, anti-Muslim incidents, as well as anti-Semitic incidents.’
2947
At Stubhub there are no tickets for sale, spokeswoman Alison Salcedo said, because the ticket reseller is waiting for actual prices to be set and tickets to be printed.
2948
Unlike cows' milk, almond milk – which is made from ground nuts and water – has no cholesterol or lactose, and being a plant food, it is often consumed by vegans, vegetarians, and others forgoing dairy.
2949
Stan Collymore, talkSPORT lead football pundit who revels in laying down the law on the radio, astonished reporters with his behaviour during Aston Villa’s 3-3 Premier League draw with QPR on Tuesday night.
2950
4 – Nemanja Vidic, Cristiano Ronaldo, David Beckham, Roy Keane, Gary Pallister .
=13.
=15.
=15.
=15.
=15. Sunderland (1) 1 – Kevin Phillips .
2951
Lord Prescott published extracts from two letters he received from the Prince - including one expressing his sadness at the death of the Labour politician's mother.
2952
Helena Bonham Carter was choosen as the top choice as our celebrity aunt whilst David Walliams was voted the person we'd most like to have as our uncle .
2953
David Villa posted this snap of his Instagram of his family enjoying the Empire State Building in New York .
2954
Mr Roberts, a 50-year-old former TV and radio presenter, said 'Daniel, this one's for you' as he jumped off the bridge - in reference to his great-great-uncle Daniel McAllister who died after leaping off the bridge in 1913 .
2955
Alison Saunders, right, said her job as head of the Crown Prosecution Service was to make the correct legal decisions in difficult cases, not the most popular ones, Lord Janner, left .
2956
An engineer, who was sentenced to six months jail and 75 lashes after he was found with homemade alcohol in Saudi Arabia, has spoken of his frustration with the lack of help he received from the Australian embassy.
2957
But, as of yet, the Cherries aren't choking, Callum Wilson's 22nd goal of the season setting them on their way to a third successive win at the Madejski Stadium.
2958
Her new law would impose fines of up to £12,000 for inciting someone under 18 to get drunk, and fines of £5,000 or six months in prison for inciting someone of any age to binge-drink.
2959
HSBC was ordered to pay £500 to the couple for their ‘distress and inconvenience’ over the ‘unfair application of its age policy’, and was told to reconsider their loan application.
2960
Barcelona forward Pedro has admitted he is finding his bit-part role this season under Luis Enrique  difficult and insists it is only logical that there is talk of him leaving the club.
2961
The Loose Women panellist said she was 'hounded on Twitter' after airing her views on the ITV show in a discussion about overweight teenagers, and now insists she was only referring to people larger than a size 20.
2962
Tottenham Hotspur (4-2-3-1): Vorm 6.5, Walker 6 (Davies 47, 6), Chiriches 6, Dier 6, Rose 6.5; Bentaleb 6, Mason 6.5 (Townsend 83); Chadli 6.5 (Lamela 64, 6), Eriksen 7, Paulinho 5; Kane 6 .
2963
Asked to respond, Hamilton defended himself as he said: 'It's not my job to look after Nico's race, it's my job to manage the car and bring the car home as healthy and as fast as possible.
2964
Dundee United striker Nadir Ciftci celebrated a goal by blowing a kiss at opposition goalkeeper Scott Bain, but the Turkish midfielder was the one left blushing as his side lost away at rivals Dundee.
2965
And the pressure is on for agencies who can face a fines of up to $80,000 and six months in prison for employing too-thin models.
Strict rules:
2966
She said: 'I like to dress sexy, if I can't walk in high heels, I won't go outside.
Pat on a night out with Julia, left, who says 'we'll just keep going till we fall to bits'
2967
Action shot:
The artwork of 33-year-old Patrick Kramer is so realistic it's impossible to tell apart from a photo.
Glass half full or half empty?
2968
Stubbs, who had seen his team play well but fail to beat Hearts in three previous outings this season, said his players had answered those who asked if they had the bottle to win at the business end of the season.
2969
Carlos Bacca – Cristiano Ronaldo, Messi and Neymar aside, La Liga’s most proflific forward this season – went close when he whistled a strike over the top of Bravo’s goal, while Gerard Pique and Sergio Busquets were both booked for stopping lightning-quick attacks.
2970
There is no way the player should now be disciplined for that.
‘Look at the different options — any way you look at it, he would have missed the final,’ said Lunny.
2971
Lee County Sheriff's deputies said that 54-year-old Larry McElroy fired his 9mm pistol at the animal on Sunday night when he saw the vermin in his Leesburg backyard.
2972
The researchers found the collagen in the skin dermis changes from being a disordered tangle (shown left) to line up in straight parallel rows (shown right) when skin is damaged to provide strength and tear resistance .
2973
Meal: Eating protein with every meal is vital to strong, healthy hair, as hair consists of protein, experts say .
He suggests having protein at every meal.
2974
'It was really exciting to start taking the hormones and see my body change - and soon as I was given them by my doctor.
2975
It is not the first time the show's host has struggled to contain himself when a rude word has popped up - last year Hairy Biker Dave Myers offered up the seven-letter word 'todgers', causing much hilarity among the hosts.
2976
In a YouGov survey for The Times, 43 per cent of voters think Mr Miliband 'comes across as wanting to win the most' when compared to Mr Cameron.
2977
Lazio goalkeeper Etrit Berisha thwarts Higuain, who is unsettled at Napoli with Rafa Benitez set to leave .
2978
The footage shows the mysterious dictator waving and smiling to the crowds, with his right-hand wrist wrapped up in a white bandage.
2979
The International Monetary Fund predicts the UK economy will grow by 2.7 per cent this year and 2.3 per cent in 2016, beaten only by the United States.
2980
The sight of Liam Plunkett and Mark Wood impressing in the nets here on Sunday, and Moeen Ali bowling apparently without discomfort after joining the squad, was a reminder that England have options for the second Test which starts on Tuesday.
2981
After a 62-mile (100km) trek through the Thai jungle, Me-Bai, the small elephant can be seen nuzzling her mother, Mae Yui, while the pair joyfully flap their ears and caress each other with their trunks  in the Elephant Nature Park sanctuary, in the north of the country.
2982
The agency revoked Baldwin's security clearance and put him on leave in light of the arrest.
The records do not list an attorney for Baldwin and a telephone number could not be located.
2983
Asked if his knock had sent any sort of message to the England selectors, he added: 'I hope to show that I can make scores in all three formats.
2984
Jennifer is a huge fitness fan, and the mother of two has completed triathlons .
A huge fitness fan, the mother of two has completed triathlons.
Visit site .
Jennifer Lopez looks stunning on the red carpet in this beautifully crafted gown by Lebanese designer Elie Saab.
Visit site .
2985
6. Behaviour of the public (Maximum score = 10 - Minimum score = 0) The section which has angered Hughes, teams begin with a score of five points but can lose marks for persistent abuse of officials, aggressive conduct towards rival fans and foul and abusive language.
2986
He adds that these images aren’t meant to be taken as a wholly serious look at the future of space travel, but rather ‘a light-hearted imagining of the future where even a poor space miner can maybe strike it lucky at the zero-g roulette tables!’
2987
Tony Pulis is plotting talks with West Bromwich Albion chairman Jeremy Peace once Premier League safety is secured to ensure the club can become a top-ten team again.
2988
Corporal Christian Walmsley was found dead in his flat in Bolton after struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder following tours of duty abroad .
2989
Danny Rose has attracted interest from Manchester City after a strong season with Tottenham .
I look at the stats and other players in his position.
2990
In both Hatton Garden and the LA raids, the gangs bored into vaults using heavy drills (pictured), broke in over a long weekend, set off an alarm on the Friday that wasn't checked out, and raided safety deposit boxes .
2991
Miss Sturgeon’s remarks came after she had insisted that she would put Ed Miliband (right) into Downing Street even if Labour wins 40 fewer seats than the Tories in a hung Parliament.
2992
Scroll down for video .
Two out of the three models of Apple Watches, which are available to pre-order from today, have sapphire glass screens.
2993
Islamic State continue to launch new offensives, targeting the strategic Iraqi oil fields at Baiji and the city of Ramadi in Anbar province.
2994
Astronauts drink the coffee straight from the pouch using a straw.
Once the coffee is brewed, it's dispensed in a pouch, which astronauts drink straight from using a straw .
2995
A retired Calgary couple who were attacked by pirates during a sailing trip in Honduras two weeks ago said they're grateful to be alive after the terrifying incident.
2996
Roberts, who worked at Kent & Canterbury Hospital, also poured water over the elderly widow, telling other staff: 'My son said if they do it to you, you can do it to them.'
2997
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg wants existing phone appointments extended so doctors can see patients on video calls .
Only the Liberal Democrats have listened.'
2998
Aston Villa boss Tim Sherwood has urged his captain to prove his worth as the club aims to stay up .
'He is just concentrating on getting fit to play.
2999
They found that the enamel on the crown of the teeth was thicker than that found on Neanderthal teeth and it was more similar in morphology to modern humans.
3000
Using the username 'Richard Hammond is bored', the presenter entitled the video 'Bored', before publishing an edited version  under the equally-inspired name of 'Bored 2'.
3001
Waheed Ahmed, the 21-year-old son of a Labour councillor, has been held at Birmingham Airport after returning for allegedly trying to sneak into Syria with eight members of his family (pictured in Turkey)
3002
Edinburgh’s European Challenge Cup hopes have been dealt a huge blow after Scotland international centre Matt Scott was ruled out until at least the end of the season.
3003
The boxer is joined by several of his compatriots as he sings and performs in 'I'm fighting for Filipinos' The 'I'm fighting for Filipinos' music video shows his compatriots in derelict areas of the Asian country as well as footage of his previous fights.
3004
U.S. President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro will have a substantive 'discussion' tomorrow at a regional summit the two men are attending this weekend in Panama, the White House said Friday.
3005
Because it has over-the-water bungalows there were times when it felt like we were in the Maldives, but when we went to the Australian themed restaurant, I imagined I was back in the jungle on I'm A Celebrity — even though there weren't any luxuries in that jungle.
3006
Barcelona midfielder Xavi will have a significant contribution to make during the final months of the season as the Catalans attempt to repeat 2009's historic treble victory, according to manager Luis Enrique.
3007
Mohammad Liaqat launched into a 'racist tirade' after Mount Carmel School headteacher Xavier Bowers (pictured) banned Muslim pupils from growing beards .
3008
Paris Saint-Germain ace Zlatan Ibrahimovic will miss his side's matches against Nice, Lille, Metz and Nantes .
3009
Hamilton, who is bidding to win a third World Championship title this season, has out-qualified and out-raced Rosberg in all three grand prix and Rosberg will likely be feeling the pressure according to Hakkinen.
LH:
Q:
3010
In the left picture Russian President Vladimir Putin (R), Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev (L) and his wife Svetlana (C) attend the Easter service in Christ the Savior Cathedral, while Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill, right, lights candles in the service .
3011
Aaron Hernandez saw his PCP-taking friends kill Odin Lloyd but did not commit the murder himself, his defense claimed in the closing arguments of his trial on Tuesday.
3012
The say that imitation is the highest form of flattery, although Floyd Mayweather Jnr's sparring partner Jeremy 'J Flash' Nichols' impersonation of Manny Pacquiao is less than complimentary.
3013
Nick Clegg wants to charge £2,000 a year on properties worth between £2million and £2.5million, rising to £3,500 for those worth between £2.5million and £3million, £5,000 for £3million to £4million and £9,000 for those worth up to £5million.
3014
The 51-year-old had to leave her job as a Barclays bank clerk as a result of the injuries she suffered when the yellow taxi struck her in May last year.
3015
The film will be based in London, with some scenes in the south of France, or in the Bahamas if the budget allows.
'I’m waiting for the budget!
3016
Newcaslte boss John Carver admits the club need to look at the 'DNA' of their dressing-room this summer .
I'm not interested in how we play, we just need points.
3017
Stunning: Graeme Whipps captured this image of the Lyrid meteor shower in the skies above Pitcaple in Aberdeenshire yesterday .
3018
Restrained:
This weekend also saw campaigners gather in Glasgow's George Square and in Manchester's Platt Fields Park.
Checking for drugs:
3019
The Gunners have been fortunate in having three home fixtures but have totally failed to capitalise on this, drawing 2-2 with Hull City and Manchester City, whilst losing 2-1 at the hands of Manchester United.
3020
While booking hotels by the hour may have a somewhat seedy reputation, one company is allowing businessman and women and those who need a short rest to book well-known London hotels in three-hour blocks.
3021
Artist John Bramblitt, right, discovered his love of painting after losing his sight some 12 years ago .
Video courtesy: DMA.org .
3022
Duffy's co-accused Evans, who has plead guilty to murder,  will receive a reduced sentence for giving evidence at her former lover's trial .
It felt so good,' the Daily Telegraph reported.
3023
Adam Johnson leaves Peterlee police station on Thursday after being charged .
Johnson leaves the Peterlee police station on Thursday after learning of the charges against him .
3024
Manchester City and Chelsea are set to battle it out for the signature of West Ham left-back Aaron Cresswell this summer.
3025
Mirko 'Cro Cop' Filipovic delivered on his promise to exact revenge as he stopped Gabriel Gonzaga in the third round of their long-awaited heavyweight rematch in Krakow.
3026
Villa are six points clear of Queens Park Rangers in 18th but the gap could close this weekend with Burnley and Leicester in Premier League action and Sherwood’s team in the FA Cup semi-final.
3027
Double goal scorer on the night Hernandez (right) tries to round a diving Celta goalkeeper Sergio Alvarez (left) Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo (left) fights for the ball against Celta's Augusto Fernandez but was unable to add to his impressive tally .
3028
The Namibia flanker received a one-week ban after he appeared at a Champions Cup disciplinary hearing on Thursday.
3029
Thanking her supporters: Rita Wilson took to her Twitter account on Tuesday after revealing she has breast cancer and undergone double mastectomy and reconstructive surgery (pictured in September 2014)
3030
The study suggested damaging events in childhood could affect beta cells and raise insulin demands to cope with elevated levels of stress hormones.
3031
He played just six games as the Patriots won their sixth straight AFC East title and went on to win the Super Bowl.
3032
Mark Hughes has insisted he will have significant money to spend this summer if required – and told Asmir Begovic he can fulfil his ambitions at Stoke City.
3033
French defender Raphael Varane uploaded an astonishing video to Twitter of the fire-hot arrival Madrid's players were given from their supporters, who mobbed the team coach and banged on the windows in support and anticipation.
3034
Police in Lewiston, Idaho, are looking for this passer-by who pulled driver Matthew Sitko, 23, from his car that was dangling over a cliff on Wednesday.
3035
Determined not to miss out on important lessons Emily (pictured) says she plans to return to school with her hair pinned up and 'hopes nothing is said' 'They had her in tears.
3036
Davis fluffs his next shot and lets Taylor in — a long black through the blue and green spots and his first genuine chance to take the title.
3037
Former Playboy model Annette Edwards holds her world record Continental Giant rabbit Darius aloft .
Aged only one, Jeff is already 3ft 8in long and weighs 2st.
3038
Overlooking the Clyde estuary and with easy access to the sloping shoreline, the castle was deemed an ideal training ground for thousands of British troops.
3039
Chris Trokey, second left, saved the life of Dr Michael Shannon, pictured center, with fellow paramedics (pictured) in 2011 - thirty years after the doctor saved his life as a newborn .
3040
'We are still on course to beat the best points record we have had, but we are making it hugely difficult for ourselves now when we really should be coasting instead of looking forward to every game we are playing.'
3041
The arrival of Tim Sherwood at Villa Park has rejuvenated Benteke's form in front of goal this season .
He signed a new four-year deal on vastly improved terms.
3042
Dr Lambert, the college's chief, was quoted telling the Sydney Morning Herald that the diploma was designed with students 'in the middle rank of learners' in mind.
3043
Mundo Deportivo feature a picture of the Barcelona team that won 3-1 in Paris on Wednesday night and proclaim them 'favourites' to go on and win the competition.
3044
Glenn Ford, who was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer after his release last year, was too weak to stand when Marty Stroud walked into his Louisiana home last week but shook his hand.
3045
The  young centre midfielder is an academy player with Dagenham and Redbridge Football Club and dreams of one day turning out for Real Madrid or Barcelona.
3046
The fish begins relaxing in the man's hand and stays very still as the owner begins to stroke it with his finger .
3047
Mime Through Time, which sees the girls change costumes in quick succession as they mime to hit songs from the 1940s through to today, currently has 21.66 million hits on YouTube and 27.9 million on Facebook alone.
3048
Coral Jones, pictured with her husband, Paul, 46, has revealed she has been sent hate mail blaming her for the murder of her five-year-old daughter April and demanding her other children are taken into care .
3049
Accompanying the letter from Benaud, dated September 27, 1996, was a full sheet of notes about spin bowling for left-hand bowlers.
3050
After a brief moment of stillness, the cat immediately gets up and scurries over to another spot.
Eager to get some rest, the infant repeats the same move and rolls to the ground.
3051
A professional boxer killed a nine-year-old girl's guinea pigs in front of her by slowly squeezing the life out them before throwing them out of her window.
3052
Charles Severance, 54, who has been charged with the murders of Nancy Dunning, Ron Kirby and Ruthanne Lodato, in Alexandria, Virginia, was in court for a hearing on Thursday.
3053
‘I’ve scored some pretty crucial goals before, but we might look back at the end of the season and that might turn out to be the most important one yet,’ said King, .
3054
The US-based Barrick Gold, which boasts that it is the world’s leading gold mining company, reached the out-of-court settlement when the women threatened to file a lawsuit in the US.
3055
The rescue pup was born with a deformity which caused his front to legs to be bent backwards at the knees - as a result, he was forced to crawl around on his joints .
3056
Jiri Stabl, a spokesman for the Prague Public Transport Company, told AP that the train project is delayed and ‘it became impossible’ to change the original plan to include an escalator for those transferring from the metro station to the bus terminal.
3057
The main New York to San Francisco air route stretched from New York to San Francisco, following the yellow concrete trail.
3058
Apart from the cosmic effect caused by Zayn leaving One Direction, Professor Hawking spoke about the mysteries of the universe, being diagnosed with ALS, and the future of our planet.
3059
Alan Pardew's five-game winning run was crucial to Newcastle's season, who would only be on 20 points .
Reputation restored, Pardew’s exit plan was in place.
3060
Around 1.3 billion Chinese people marked the Qingming Festival, a three-day holiday in China, by watching parades and travelling home .
3061
Local media said staff who man Paris's Eiffel Tower would keep it shut it until 6pm local time as part of the strike.
3062
Governor Mary Fallin signed into law a bill approving nitrogen as an alternative method of death, giving Oklahoma four different ways to enact its death penalty.
3063
Sim-Mutch, pictured, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to rob, conspiracy to commit burglary, conspiracy to steal and conspiracy to possess an imitation firearm.
3064
There’s been a lot of noise around English cricket and a lot of emotion which is understandable but I think now we’ve got 16 players who are going to the West Indies under Alastair and we’ve got to go and try to play some really good cricket.’
3065
He is now living in a house with a group of English speaking fighters, originally as far as Belgium, Finland and Australia. Hamza Parvez (left) standing next to Belgian fighter and close friend Abu Mariya al-Belgiki have been living together in a house in Raqqa, Syria.
3066
Arsenal target Raheem Sterling is a more talented player than Gunners star Mesut Ozil, according to Michael Owen.
Is there a debate?
Not even close.'
3067
Cruel.
So cruel.'
'The pilot told me unless you buy a ticket and travel with your son he won't be flying,' Ms Laurente said .
3068
The boy had previously told his chess opponent on four separate occasions that he would jump out the window, but the classmate told police he thought the boy was just messing around (stock photo)
3069
This comes as police returned to the 63-year-old's home on Monday for a third time this year after it was unveiled that he was due to fix William's grandmother's washing machine around the time the boy vanished .
3070
Harry Kane will play for England’s Under 21 team in this summer’s European Championships after holding talks with Gareth Southgate.
3071
Joel Ward has put pen to paper on a new three-and-a-half year contract at Crystal Palace, keeping him at the south London club until the summer of 2018.
3072
And, after falling behind to a Sergio Aguero goal, Young feels they did just that, storming back to take a 4-1 lead and rewarding the raucous home support with a first win over their rivals at Old Trafford since 2011.
3073
Video footage shows the animal clinging for life as it teeters on its makeshift perch.
Video footage shows the animal clinging for life as it teeters on its perch .
3074
Esteban Cambiasso signed a one-year deal at Leicester City and is now linked with Delhi Dynamos in India .
3075
Leading Brits Justin Rose and Paul Casey, both in a tie for third with Dustin Johnson on seven under par, will tee off at 2:45pm (7:45pm BST) and 2:35pm (7:35pm BST) respectively.
3076
A married Maths teacher at Max Clifford's old school is facing jail for groping a 15-year-old pupil in his car.
3077
After arresting Mrs Cadman-Khan on suspicion of child neglect, Det Sgt Helyer 'lied under oath' to claim Aimee had been mistreated, the court heard.
3078
Incredibly lifelike:
Mr Hanson sees robotics as his calling and works on many fronts, from sculpting features to developing artificial intelligence.
3079
Aliesha's routine is made up of exercises that focus on a different part of her body for each day of the week, and she will often do cardio on the weekends.
3080
The new car park will open under the National Trust, already owns a large section of the coastline including Rhossili Beach and the Worm's Head islands, this weekend .
3081
Rhodes got his 20th of the campaign in the 2-2 draw at Huddersfield while Gestede reached 19 – and if he gets another against Ipswich next weekend Gary Bowyer’s side will join Watford as the only English clubs with two strikers who have got 20 or more League goals.
3082
The remarkable picture is a portent of the bitterness that would follow the wedding in 2002 – as Sir Paul and Ms Mills separated in 2006 and went through a bitter and messy divorce in 2008.
3083
The researchers also observed how often the child took risks such as jumping off moving swings or going down a slide head-first and found children whose carers were distracted were ‘significantly’ more likely to behave in this way .
3084
A new anti-smoking advert warning people that they could get colon cancer and be forced to use an ostomy bag for the rest of their lives has drawn the anger of a 19-year-old student who  uses one as a consequence of her fight with inflammatory bowel disease.
3085
Jonathan Krueger, the photo editor at the school newspaper and a junior in the College of Communication and Information, was shot in the chest around 2 a.m. Friday while walking home.
3086
Jack Colback was not protected from the Sunderland fans' ire, positioned by John Carver at left back .
3087
How far we've come: On the left is the original iPad, launched in 2010, and on the right the iPad Air 2, launched on 22 October 2014 .
3088
The bearded dragon is then rewarded for her conversational skills with a superworm treat, which she 'absolutely loves'.
3089
The disused Rhondda Tunnel, which runs 1,000 feet beneath the Welsh hills, was closed as part of the Beeching cutbacks, a project which spelled the end for thousands and stations across the rail network in Britain.
3090
Apple sold more than 61 million iPhones in the quarter, accounting for more than two-thirds of its $58 billion in revenue for the quarter and the lion's share of its $13.6 billion in profit - and up 40% from a year ago .
3091
Back in 2006, Nikki Webster was featured wearing skimpy shorts and an army helmet, looking seductively over her shoulder, with the tag line reading 'For the boys'.
3092
A new survey by Lord Ashcroft had the Tories on 36 per cent, with Labour trailing on 30 per cent, Ukip on 11 per cent and the Lib Dems on 9 per cent .
3093
Police have now arrested brothers Steven Rodriguez, 24, and Jacob Rodriguez, 29, and charged them with capital murder following the alleged road rage killing.
3094
Research carried out by the Forsa Institute found the number of people who considered the end of the conflict a defeat fell to just nine per cent - a 25 per cent drop in the last decade.
3095
Wass, who can play at right back, left back or either wing has been watched by Chelsea and Liverpool .
3096
You, too, may remember that mullet- haired decade.
The problem with Ed Miliband is that he wants to take the country back to the 1970s, writes Boris Johnson .
3097
The councillors said some of the conversations they overheard between residents and officers ‘would indicate that paying to park may be the exception rather than the rule’ (file picture)
3098
It is understood Gareth Bale and company would prefer playing at the more intimate Cardiff City Stadium rather than the Millennium Stadium, where they have not played since meeting England in a Euro 2012 qualifier in March 2011.
3099
Chief executive Christopher Bailey, who took over from Angela Ahrendts in May last year, said new products had helped to boost sales.
3100
‘This deal would legitimise Iran’s nuclear programme, bolster Iran’s economy and increase Iran’s aggression and terror throughout the Middle East and beyond,’ the prime minister said.
3101
Natalie Bennett said the so-called ‘citizens income’ – which critics say would cost £280billion – would take longer than five years to bring in, and could take even longer .
3102
Phil Jones hopes Manchester United 'turn up and play their football' vs Manchester City on Sunday .
They've got some great players in their squad but so have we.
3103
Bon Apetit have revealed that the best way to revive a stale loaf of bread is to run it under water before baking it in the oven .
3104
Hazard will have to beat off competition from Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea .
Chelsea captain Terry revealed his vote for PFA Player of the Year was Philippe Coutinho .
3105
Toby Alderweireld is ignoring the background noise about his future, such is the on-loan defender's determination to complete Southampton's 'special season' by securing European qualification.
3106
On Friday, Furious 7 joined the $1 billion club at the worldwide box office, leaping into the top twenty grossing films of all time worldwide.
3107
Police are hunting a thief who stole an 86-year old woman's handbag while she prayed at church on Good Friday.
3108
Bill Dudley, Europe's oldest McDonald's employee, celebrating his 90th birthday at the outlet in Mold, Flintshire, where he works two days a week .
3109
Gary Ross Dahl, the creator of the wildly popular and bizarre 1970s fad the Pet Rock, has died aged 78 in southern Oregon.
3110
Doctors are putting the health of women and their babies at risk by performing caesarean sections too readily, UN officials warn .
3111
Brown was knocked out cold in England's 47-17 victory over Italy at Twickenham in the second round of RBS 6 Nations action in February.
3112
The 21-year-old finished 18 under to beat Rose and Phil Mickelson by four shots and become the second youngest Masters winner - after Tiger Woods in 1997.
3113
'I am shocked and deeply saddened that David Wihby, my state director and a friend for many years, has been arrested under these circumstances,' Ayotte said in a statement.
3114
Cristiano Ronaldo was the first player to go across to Bale as he sat waiting for treatment and the Welshman’s expression spoke volumes – he knew he would not be able to carry on and could now miss out on Real’s most important game of the season.
3115
Rutgers University has banned fraternity and sorority house parties at its main campus in New Brunswick, New Jersey, for the rest of the spring semester after several alcohol-related problems this school year, including the death of a student.
3116
Two armed robbers have been caught on camera using a sledgehammer and an axe to try and smash their way into a jewellery shop.
Raid:
3117
Historian Lucy Worsley has  said that Kate Phillips, pictured left, who plays Henry VIII's wife Jane Seymour, portrait pictured right, in BBC drama Wolf Hall is too pretty .
3118
From out of the blue, it was the scarlet red of Ferrari that was back on the top step of the podium for the first time in almost two years last time out in Malaysia, pushing reigning champion Lewis Hamilton and team-mate Nico Rosberg down to second and third.
3119
The Japanese rider powered in a scorching time of one minute 29.455 seconds.
The Japanese rider powered in a scorching time of one minute 29.455 seconds ahead of James Ellison .
3120
In the AWW video interview, Laura Wells recalls wanting to 'punch' a model scout when they suggested she could get work as a plus-size model.
3121
Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino is in no doubt goalkeeper Michel Vorm has the strength of character to put his Capital One Cup final disappointment behind him and again prove an able deputy for  Hugo Lloris at Burnley on Sunday.
3122
In type 2 diabetes, the body's cells fail to react to insulin, causing blood sugar levels to soar which, if uncontrolled, can lead to blindness, kidney damage, heart disease and circulation problems, especially in the feet and legs.
3123
Ted Loveday managed to answer 10 starter questions in the last round of the BBC quiz show, helping Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge defeat Magdalen College, Oxford.
3124
Indonesian President Joko Widodo (left) ignored reassurances from his chief political rival Prabowo Subianto (right) that he would support a decision to grant clemency to Australians Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran .
3125
In the clip, the woman can be heard demanding that he pays her on the spot, despite his assurance that she will be compensated eventually .
3126
Eddie Hearn presents the cheque for £1.5m to set-up Scott Quigg's fight with Carl Frampton .
We take the risk.
Carl does not have to take any risk.’
3127
Peter Hiett, a decorated former prison guard at Feltham Young Offenders Institution in Hounslow (pictured), claims staff regularly arrange brutal fights between rival criminals behind bars at Britain's toughest jail .
3128
A spokesman for the Home Office said: 'On February 6, 2013 the family applied to the Home Office for leave under Article 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (right to respect for private and family life), this was refused by the Home Office on January 22, 2014.
3129
The group of six - which included the groom-to-be Gareth Silk and his stags Gareth Edwards, Steven Harvey Taylor, Michael Groves, dad Andrew Silk and David Rowles - descended on the promenade of the Spanish resort on March 29.
3130
But he said: 'I think it's important for big clubs to bring in the best players, that's the most important thing.
We will see the way we play.
3131
When children are young, they always want whatever toy the other is playing with (picture posed by models) 6. Get an extra pair of eyes to put in the back of your head because, at one point, your children will try to kill each other.
3132
Laura became so obsessed with having the perfect figure she would hide food down the side of her bed, lying to her mother about eating and sometimes surviving on just a piece of fruit a day.
3133
The five-star Fortina Spa Resort, on the waterfront in Sliema, is adults only for most of the year .
The five-star hotel is adults only for most of the year.
3134
Woods smiles after winning his last major in a play-off with Rocco Mediate at the 2008 US Open .
Tiger Woods is the 111th best golfer in the world and entirely at ease with that.
3135
While thinking about another woman while having sex with your wife is not a sin, the Iranian ayatollah preaches, if she becomes pregnant it will mean the child will be gay.
3136
6.5 .
6.
6.5 .
6 .
6.5 .
3137
Survivor Dr Gallant said she and an Indian doctor rushed to help the injured in difficult conditions following the avalanche, including the gravely-ill Sherpa, but said there was nothing they could do to save his life.
3138
Iraqi army:
 Islamic State fighters ambushed an Iraqi army convoy of Humvees with a bulldozer in the Nadhem al-Taqseem region yesterday .
3139
Prior, 33, was badly affected by the problem last summer, eventually losing his England place to Jos Buttler, and has not played since July.
3140
Ward shared the story on Facebook (the post above) which went viral and prompted Stewart-Bouley to write a blog post with her account of the racist incident .
3141
Things are going well in the courtroom - and the bedroom -  for TV superstar Judge Judy, according to her husband of 38 years Jerry Sheindlin.
3142
'Very lucky' Skating with a full face mask during practice, the Detroit forward openly bore a gruesome red wound that required 50 to 60 stitches to close along multiple layers of skin, the Detroit Free Press reports.
3143
Northern parts of England, where temperatures hovered around just 10C yesterday, will see slightly improved temperatures, with up to 12C forecast today.
3144
Dishes that contain 'shocking' amounts of sugar are being promoted as healthy eating options by the Government's flagship anti-obesity initiative.
3145
Clinton Foundation donations between 2001 and 2015 showed governments and agencies from 16 nations previously gave direct grants of between $55 million and $130 million.
3146
From a homeless man who was insistent upon telling his story about Britney Spears, to a man who insisted Murray was saying 'Get out of my nightgown', the filmmaker captured it all.
3147
Sakho limped off the field during Liverpool's FA Cup quarter-final victory against Blackburn Rovers on Wednesday and was replaced by Kolo Toure in the 28th minute.
3148
Vitolo has been very active and Juanmi looked like scoring,' Del Bosque added.
Del Bosque was impressed with the match's other debutant Juanmi (left) who 'looked like scoring'
3149
Barclays Community Leader Maria Branigan said of the Toffees No 14: 'Steven has gone and above his role as a footballer and we've awarded him with the Spirit of the Game Award to recognise his fantastic work within the community.
3150
Third graders in Orange, New Jersey, and high school students in the Philadelphia Student Union have sent Mumia Abu-Jamal letters wishing him well after he was hospitalized last week .
3151
Ballance's 122 was the mainstay of England's 333 for seven declared leaving West Indies needing an unlikely 438 to win the first Test.
3152
The gallery's chief curator, Xavier Bray (pictured), said visitor numbers quadrupled after the 'spot the fake' challenge was laid down to the public at the beginning of February .
3153
Chris Christie appeared on the Tonight Show Wednesday evening, and wasted no time calling on Jimmy Fallon for the weight jokes made about him on the program.
3154
John Isner reached the semifinals of the Miami Open after easily beating fourth-seeded Kei Nishikori of Japan 6-4, 6-3 on Thursday.
3155
The ad is soundtracked with an old-fashioned 1987 Ford Taurus commercial, which Greenblatt-Seay sometimes interjects with a dubbed voice over to make the information relevant to the 2002 car .
3156
Sunderland manager Dick Advocaat looks on as Sunderland are dismantled at home by Crystal Palace .
Man of the match: Yannick Bolasie.
3157
Referee Jerome Garces showed Watson a yellow card, despite the shameful pleas by three Leinster players for him to be shown red, and Leinster centre Ian Madigan kicked two more penalties in his absence to send his side in 15-5 up at half-time and seemingly in complete control.
3158
Olivier Rousteing has revealed that he chose Kim and Kanye to star in Balmain's latest campaign because they 'represent a family for the new world'.
3159
Lewis Hamilton has come under fire for spraying a hostess in the face with champagne after winning the Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai on Sunday.
3160
Mbaeri, of Hamilton Court, Ashby Place, Portsmouth, denies fraud by abuse of position and conspiracy to commit fraud .
The trial continues.
3161
(Pictured from left to right: Khloé, Kourtney and Kim Kardashian).
(Pictured from left to right)
Kim Kardashian and Madonna are famous middle-borns.
3162
Rules over use of video evidence to retrospectively ban players changed after this challenge by Gary Deegan (right) on Gary Irvine .
3163
Unmanned drones have skyrocketed in popularity thanks to the growing trend of aerial photography, and they have become a serious problem for airports and pilots as many operators are not aware of the rules or dangers.
3164
She has previously holidayed in the area with the 54-year-old broadcaster but the pair, who have two daughters and a son, are said to have lived apart for  years.
3165
A Lincoln spokesman dismissed the Bentley designer's criticism and said the model 'is clearly a Lincoln' Volkswagen-owned Bentley has had a Continental in its lineup since 1984 and Ford retired the name in 2002 .
3166
At the grand old age of 75, Jack Nicklaus is still capable of hitting aces.
Crenshaw and Nicklaus fist pump following his ace on the 130-yard hole at Augusta National .
3167
Ellie Grant, 22, was appearing on ITV's This Morning to discuss how she suddenly developed the condition - and how she had found love with fiance Jordan - who is deaf.
3168
More than a dozen people were injured on Thursday night after a stage collapsed during an Indiana public high school theater performance, sending students plummeting 10 feet into an orchestra pit.
3169
Friends, family, and hospital stuff rushed to plan the pair's dream wedding, and Laura and Jack got married in Torbay Hospital Chapel just six days after the heartbreaking news - and Ed Sheeran even sent them a personal video.
3170
Builder Ian Merrett, left, was accused of sexual harassment for wolf-whistling Poppy Smart, 23, right, every day for a month, but he has said she should take it as a compliment .
3171
Samsung retook the lead in the global smartphone market in the first quarter, as gains in emerging market sales helped it overtake Apple, a research group said Wednesday.
3172
On VE Day - May 8, 1945 - the Queen, then Princess Elizabeth, famously joined the jubilant victory celebrations in London and danced the conga through the Ritz Hotel before joining crowds outside Buckingham Palace.
3173
Khloe, pictured, left, at the 2013 Kardashian Kollection cocktail party in Sydney, Australia, and, right, last week, has lost 13 pounds in three months thanks to her grueling exercise regime .
Visit site .
3174
Other hydrogen fuel production methods rely on highly processed sugars, but the Virginia Tech team used corn husks and stalks, (a stock image of the whole plantis shown) which are known as dirty biomass, to cut costs and make the fuel easier to produce locally .
3175
Around 56,000 dogs were treated for poisoning between 2010 and 2014, according to figures compiled by the charity and the Veterinary Poisons Information Service.
3176
Lucy Gransbury dropped a thank you letter and gifts over the fence to her neighbours because she was too scared to knock on their door after they had been quiet for an entire week .
3177
Only a point is needed to break the record Premier League points tally set last season under Mauricio Pochettino, who returns to St Mary's for the first time since leaving last summer when Tottenham arrive on Saturday.
3178
The deep end of the swimming pool at the hotel was filled with green sludge, dead insects and debris .
They find the same problems when Patrick checks out the hot tub.
3179
As a junior at Jesuit High School in Dallas, the PGA golfer was humble enough to write the letter to the Murphy family who funded the scholarship that helped pay for his tuition .
3180
Frank Knight, 67, posted an apology on his Facebook account last week to Blackpool and the Oyston family, who run the Fylde coast club, over allegations he made on his social network account last year.
3181
The 26-year-old has got just over 12 months left on his current £90,000-a-week deal which has alerted Liverpool and Manchester City, who are keen on the England winger.
3182
Referee Kenny Bayless (left) holds back Floyd Mayweather during his fight against Marcos Maidana .
Bayless has refereed previous super fights involving Mayweather and Pacqiao.
3183
Less than two years later, Floyd is now a big brother to three-week-old twins, and his mum Jade said that she knows the two newest additions to their family will be his biggest supporters.
3184
Suarez Navarro, who beat Williams' sister Venus in the quarter-final, saved the first two break points but a wayward backhand handed the American the first of five breaks of serve.
3185
On Monday Stanford allegedly hung his clothes out to dry and told neighbours he'd been 'busy' Stanford was not contracted to work on the Sunday that he allegedly killed Ms Scott .
3186
Britain is paying professional aid workers up to £1,000 a day to work in Africa and Asia as part of a huge push to meet government targets on aid spending, it was claimed last night.
3187
Smith, 32, has lost back-to-back world title challenges in Germany against Arthur Abraham, albeit in controversial circumstances in the first of those fights when a wide decision was handed to Abraham from a close bout.
3188
Newry and Mourne Council (offices pictured) has spent £10,700 on staff Christmas parties over the last three years, including subsidising drinks so workers paid just £1 a pint .
3189
Yemeni rebels have seized President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi's palace on the same day Al-Qaeda militants freed hundreds of inmates in a jailbreak.
3190
William is currently training for his new job as an Air Ambulance pilot at three airbases in Cambridge, Norwich or Gloucestershire .
Visit site .
3191
Starbucks announced late Friday night that a computer outage that affected registers at 8,000 stores in the US and Canada, prompting baristas to give away free drinks, has now been resolved.
3192
Tennis champion Novak Djokovic has apologised to a startled ball boy and his parents after the Serbian player startled him during his final showdown with Andy Murray.
I sincerely hope he forgives me.
3193
The house is actually five garden-variety ranch houses cobbled together to form a 20,000-plus square foot campus-o-fun complete with swimming pool, ballroom and guesthouse .
3194
Robert De Niro, 71, (pictured with Hillary Clinton at a New York benefit in 2013), said if the former Secretary of State is voted into the White House there will be 'no surprises'
3195
Kenneth Lombardi, who goes by Ken, was a red carpet regular for CBS New York, interviewing stars from Oprah to Ashton Kutcher and Arnold Schwarzenegger .
3196
Team Sky's Geraint Thomas had to settle for 14th place in an incident-packed Tour of Flanders as Norwegian Alexander Kristoff took victory in a sprint finish with Holland's Niki Terpstra.
3197
Josh (centre) was tattooed by his friend Rob Gaskell (right) who was taking revenge on his mate after Josh had attempted to tattoo Rob with an at-home kit and it went horribly wrong .
3198
Mr Doggett said violence at matches has increased recently as older men return to watching their team play in their retirement and fears there is a danger that they will try to encourage younger fans to join their 'gangs'
3199
Royals pitcher Yordano Ventura was handed a seven-game suspension, fellow starter Edinson Volquez given five games and outfielder Lorenzo Cain and reliever Kelvin Herrera got two games apiece.
3200
Morrisons supermarket is bringing in halal-only pick and mix counters so that Muslim customers don't have to check the ingredients of their sweets.
3201
'Someone like Rom needs to be on the football pitch.
Martinez believes Lukaku has shown he can shoulder the burden which comes with his £28million price tag.
3202
This famous phallic cloud was captured by a nature photographer last year in Debyshire, central England .
‘I couldn’t believe it when I saw it over my house.
3203
The speeds, however, won't be as high when the new line between Tokyo and Nagoya comes into service in 2027.
It cost $1.3billion (£830million) to build.
3204
Hot on its wheels is the Hyundai i20 Mk1 with 81.01 per cent and Fiat Panda Mk2 at 81.49 per cent.
6. Toyota Yaris Mk2 - 83.93% .
10. MG3 - 95.56% .
3205
In 2007, the Foreign Ministry received a claim stating that Garcia's then 4-year-old daughter, Alondra Diaz Garcia, had been taken by her father from the U.S. and was believed to be in Michoacan.
3206
It's like I was drafted,' Hamill told a massive crowd Saturday night at Star Wars Celebration of his decision to reprise his role as Luke Skywalker in Star Wars: The Force Awakens.
3207
Always the bride: Liana Barrientos, 39, of the Bronx, pleaded not guilty on Friday to two felony charges of filing a false instrument, involving marriage licences .
3208
The 38-year-old man had reportedly chewed and swallowed the entire glass bottle 'and then went for a lie down', at which point his family called Royal Darwin Hospital, reports NT News.
3209
Previous royal birth: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge leave the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, central London, in a proud moment with their newborn  son Prince George in July 2013 .
3210
Barcelona striker Luis Suarez has admitted he was nervous at the prospect of playing alongside Lionel Messi and Neymar when he joined the club.
3211
Muhammad Ali v Joe Frazier .
A poster for Muhammad Ali v Joe Frazier, also known as the Thrilla in Manila, in Quezon City, Philippines .
3212
Atlantic cod is listed by OSPAR (The Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic) as a threatened and declining species and by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as vulnerable in the Greater North Sea and Celtic Sea.
3213
Reliving his manager's post-match team talk, Higginbotham writes: '''You're the reason I'm driving up and down the f****** country to find another player, you're not f****** good enough," he yells at one player.
3214
And despite threats to revoke their parental rights unless they went along with the therapy, the Kings defiantly fled to Spain in a bid to get Ashya to the Proton Therapy Centre in Prague and protect him from the devastating side effects of NHS treatment.
3215
'Victims of child sex abuse are being let down when alongside a 60 per cent increase in reports there has been a nine per cent drop in arrests for child sex abuse, as well as falling prosecutions and convictions for child abuse offences as the police are unable to keep up.'
3216
The Air Malta passenger jet took the unusual flight path, pictured, to celebrate the wedding of two of its crew .
'I think it was a very romantic flight.
3217
A spokesperson for Thirteen Group who own the houses and are in charge of the developments said: 'The ongoing investment in our properties is planned well in advance and any inference that the filming of any TV programme could influence this is completely untrue.'
3218
Cordoned off: The duffel bag containing human remains was seen outside a building used by biotechnology company Biogen Inc, one block away from the police station, on Saturday morning, officials said .
3219
Blackpool magistrates heard that Drinnan, seen carrying kit bags at the club, was claiming £3,500 in disability benefits and had told the Department of Work and Pensions he did not have any hobbies and was in pain six days a week .
3220
A Massachusetts police department was forced to pay a $500 Bitcoin ransom to hackers who encrypted vital records on their computer network.
3221
With no ropes or safety harnesses, and only hard hats to protect them if they fall, these men spend their days hauling heavy planks and wheelbarrows full of cement over a rickety wooden walkway.
3222
Also among the parents are a couple who lied to the authorities about losing their daughter’s passport.
The girls were granted anonymity because they were juveniles.
3223
Jahnae knew they needed a second opinion, so she hunted online for a specialist who was willing to perform Jackson's urgent surgery and that's when she found Dr. Charlie Teo from The Prince of Wales Hospital in Sydney.
3224
I was definitely in the right place at the right time.'
The Indian palm squirrel, also known as three-striped palm squirrel, is found naturally in India and Sri Lanka.
3225
Mr Clitheroe posted this picture from the Sheraton Deira Hotel in Dubai on February 19 saying he was 'plane spotting in the dark' A Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesman said: 'We can confirm that three British nationals were detained in Fujairah, UAE on 21 February.
3226
After the worldwide mega-star died in 2009, the animals that made up his massive menagerie were spread across the U.S. to animals preserves, sanctuaries, and animal enthusiasts .
3227
Carroll, who is on loan from Tottenham, was hurt during England Under 21s' 1-0 victory over the Czech Republic last Friday.
3228
Two students have filed lawsuits against the Davis County School District in Utah accusing officials of failing to fire English teacher Brianne Altice, pictured in court in January, who is accused of having sex with three boys .
3229
Almost succeeded: The gang had dug 50 metres towards the Hua Pagoda and were just 20 metres away from breaching it when they were foiled by police .
3230
Heartbroken: 'I didn't do anything wrong, but they still got rid of me,' Rose McGrath of battle Creek, Michigan said tearfully of her school kicking her out for poor attendance because of her Leukemia .
3231
The personalised rooms are the most extravagant part of Real Madrid's HQ as players can only access their own suite by a finger recognition system fitted on the door.
3232
Unbreakable bond: A father-of-two with terminal brain cancer has lived out his dream of sharing a special dance with his daughters in lieu of walking them down the aisle at their weddings .
3233
A writer has revealed why she stopped washing her hair six years ago after embarking on a quest to try and control her greasy, limp locks - by avoiding shampoo.
3234
For $100 Paul's supporters can purchase branded versions of cornhole, the bean bag toss game that's especially popular with the southerners from Paul's native region, and for $1,000 they can become the owner of an autographed Rand Paul pocket Constitution.
3235
However, a spokesman for the Patriots said 'prior family commitments' were the reason why Brady didn't attend the visit.
3236
Five prisoners - including an Islamic extremist who allegedly shot dead two police officers - have been killed as they tried to escape from a van taking them to court in southern India.
3237
Mary Murphy, 66, is thought to have tried to grab hold of John Wood, 67, when he stumbled at the top of the stairs, but slipped herself and the pair fell to their deaths.
3238
Gambaccini, a former Radio 1 DJ himself, said he was particularly annoyed about last week's show when host Clara Amfo appeared to dismiss superstar Paul Simon, who had just topped the album charts at the age of 73.
3239
Asked what seven times six equals, Labour’s shadow chancellor looked down at his feet and laughed nervously before eventually answering correctly following a ten second pause.
3240
Accused of murder: 14-year-old Jamie Silvonek allegedly conspired to kill her mother Cheryl Silvonek with her 20-year-old boyfriend 'because she disapproved of their relationship'
3241
Shocking dash cam footage emerged last week which showed Marana police officer Michael Rapiejko mounting the curb and mowing down armed robbery suspect Mario Valencia.
3242
Plea by post: Seven-year-old aspiring Jedi Colin sent a letter to George Lucas asking him to change the rule that bans the Knights from marrying .
3243
Jordan Henderson is seeking a new contract worth £100,000 per week before committing his long-term future to Liverpool.
3244
'Overwhelmed': Sources told Vanity Fair that Williams, pictured in Iraq, did not want to report on 'hard' news and didn't enjoy politics or war stories, and lacked the experience of his predecessors .
3245
The new chief executive of Rotherham council could be paid up to £40,000 more than the outgoing boss, because of 'negative publicity' from the grooming scandal.
3246
Mr Cameron  claimed he became a Villa fan after watching the team beat Bayern Munich in the 1982 European Cup final - but admitted he could not remember the year of the triumph.
3247
South Africa's sports minister says he has received assurances from FIFA's ethics committee that it will complete and present a report in June into allegations of match-fixing in the buildup to the 2010 World Cup.
3248
Tim Visser wants to end his Edinburgh career lifting European silverware at the ground he will call home next season.
3249
Danny Willett gave a rules official, who had been in his line-of-sight, a verbal blast which was clearly audible to spectators surrounding the 17th green at the Masters on Thursday.
3250
The Bridesmaids star and daughter of famed Australian actor Barry Otto have, along with fellow actress Krey Boylan, film director Shannon Murphy and PR maven Jessica Carrerea, have launched their very own all female film production company called The Doll House Collective .
3251
Judge Anne Redston ordered UK Border Force to reconsider their ruling on a designer handbag made from Nile crocodile, right, that they confiscated on the grounds that it was not imported with the right documentation .
3252
Sad decision: After an amniocentesis, the Ohio woman found out that her unborn daughter found out that her daughter wouldn't survive outside the womb, and she chose to get an abortion .
3253
Dortmund coach Jurgen Klopp says his side lacked punch against Bayern Munich and deserved to lose .
In the last third we lacked punch.
3254
A ‘simple’ funeral, with a cremation, a minister and an undertaker, now costs an average of £3,590, it found.
Costs are going up, it found, partly for technical reasons.
3255
Simplified: Ells, seen in a Chipotle kitchen, has said the company has 68 total ingredients -- and another company's burrito features upwards of 80 .
3256
Australian artist Ben Quilty has penned an impassioned message to the Indonesian President in the final hours before his treasured friends, Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan, are expected to be executed in Indonesia .
3257
However, foreign nannies paid as little as $250 a week are not the answer to limited childcare and rising costs, federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten says.
3258
Phil and his wife Vania own Ultimate Gym and Fitness centre at Winnellie together .
His son, Shannan Primmer, wrote a heartfelt tribute in the wake of his father’s shock death.
3259
John Munoz, a 24-year-old sentenced to 42 years on for sexual battery and other charges in Los Angeles County, is suspected of killing cellmate, 41-year-old Rattanak Kim, who was serving a sentence of 35-years to life for conspiracy to commit murder in San Diego County.
3260
In an article titled 'Nuclear Special Forces' he said that Russia should develop nuclear weapons manned by a small force that can cause tsunamis on the US coasts and force a volcano in Yellowstone National Park to erupt.
3261
On its website, UF says that PaCE helps deal with the 'limited space of campus' and gives students 'the chance to start [their] degree online and then transition to campus in order to complete it.'
3262
Its first ‘science orbit’ will begin on 23 April, with the spacecraft remaining a distance of 8,400 miles (13,500km) away until 9 May.
3263
Philip Gigante, 41, whose grandfather Vincent 'The Chin' Gigante was the head of the Genovese crime family, was elected into the positions by residents of Airmont, New York .
3264
Arkansas Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson said Wednesday that he won't sign a religious freedom bill that his state's legislature sent to him on Tuesday, citing influence from his politically liberal son.
3265
Dallas Cowboys defensive end Greg Hardy has been suspended without pay for 10 games for conduct detrimental to the National Football League.
3266
The CPS has been accused of double standards for not prosecuting Lord Janner after it emerged at least 19 men with dementia have been convicted of child sex offences since 2010, including ten in the past year.
3267
Her Majesty, who is approaching her 89th birthday, was spotted riding her faithful black Fell pony, Carltonlima Emma, as she was joined by Lord Vestey and her Head Groom Terry Pendry in the beautiful park close to her Windsor Castle home on Monday.
3268
As gadgets get smaller, users lean over them more, putting the neck and shock-absorbing discs that cushion the vertebrae under added pressure .
3269
The Random Darknet Shopper purchased a number of items for sale on the deep web (pictured) including trainers, jeans, cigarettes, a set of masterkeys and a DVD case (far left) containing 10 ecstasy tablets .
3270
Sally Gordon-Smith, 14, was last seen leaving her school in Keilor East around 3pm, according to Victoria Police.
3271
‘I never expected to play in a game like the 4-0 loss at home to Aston Villa.
Sunderland manager Dick Advocaat enjoyed his first victory as manager in the derby game with Newcastle .
3272
The prosecution alleges Van was aided by his friend Kody Tran (center)  and Tran's wife Diane Tran (right) as well as Tran's employee Shannon Gries (left).
3273
As he struggled with addiction, he moved between his grandmother's home and his mother's home, and at the time of his overdose, he was living with his father in St Charles County.
3274
The young elephant steadys itself, lunges forward with both its back legs and tramples all over Rozie as it tries to get its balance .
3275
Scrum-half Lloyd Williams, fly-half Gareth Anscombe and number eight Josh Navidi crossed for the Blues, while Anscombe added three conversions.
3276
The $250 (£168) device recognises the electronic signature of different devices - such as kettles and washing machines - allowing users to keep an eye on their energy consumption and even control appliances through their phone.
3277
Graves and new ECB chief executive Tom Harrison want to overhaul the system and make the new man more the equivalent of a football manager than a managing director, as was Downton.
3278
When Coria went on Facebook after the truck was found, she saw an ad for a blue 2003 Chevy Stepside bed.
The police were also called.
'I watch A&E a lot.'
3279
The next generation are also getting in on the act - Cindy Crawford's daughter Kaia Gerber made her modelling debut for Young Versace aged just ten, and Christie Brinkley's daughter Sailor Cook has modelled for Lord & Taylor department store and appeared in Vogue.
3280
Jack Wilshere .
Arsenal midfielder Jack Wilshere was photographed holding a shisha pipe during a night out in London .
Diego Maradona .
3281
The 2500 passengers on board a cruise ship, which has been stranded at sea due to wild weather conditions, have finally arrived at Sydney Harbour this morning .
3282
Super swimmer:
A seven-month-old named Ayla takes the plunge in a mermaid costume  in photographer Seth Casteel's new book, Underwater Babies .
3283
Saturday's game is absolutely huge for both teams.
Martin Skrtel (centre) misses the trip to Arsenal after getting a three-game ban for stamping on David de Gea .
3284
The eight-inch, 250-year-old sex toy was found during a dig at the city of Gdansk in Poland, pictured .
The artifact has now been taken away for preservation work.
3285
A Russian television network has given Hillary Clinton's video an 18 rating because it features a gay couple, who are planning a summer wedding, holding hands .
3286
The charge came to light when easyJet customers sought to claim money back from travel insurers after French air-traffic strikes affected flights earlier this month.
3287
They argue he installed a self-destructing hack program to make sure the Random Number Generator selected his number in December 2010, and that he tampered with security cameras in the building so he would not be caught installing the program.
3288
Miss Santillan's body was found when London Ambulance Service was called to an address in Fulham, south west London .
3289
The Foxes have beaten West Ham and West Brom in their last two games and still have to play relegation rivals Sunderland, Burnley and QPR.
3290
Last week protesters demonstrated against the death penalty outside the courthouse holding up banners, one of which read: 'Why do we kill people who kill people to show that killing people is wrong?'
3291
Boxing fans hoping to attend the weigh-in for the welterweight showdown between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao on May 2 must buy advance tickets.
3292
'Then he said "I want you to make love to me" and I said "Jock" and he said "there is no other way, the front door is locked, there is no camera in here and the door is closed2 so I have to choose,' added the woman.
3293
Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson earlier Wednesday said he wants the legislature to either recall the bill from his desk or pass a follow-up measure that would make the proposal more closely mirror a 1993 federal religious-freedom law .
3294
While Cumberbatch, who was hosting the main event, and 31-year-old Cavill have no clear links to sport,  Charlene's own sporting pedigree is impeccable.
3295
Brighton and Hove Albion are giving the club's young players training in the law and ethics surrounding sexual consent.
3296
Peter Quillin (left) may be nicknamed 'Kid Chocolate' but he shows none of the expected arrogance .
‘My father knew the original Kid Chocolate in Cuba, but he’s no relation.
3297
‘I think John is England’s best defender and they have not got a lot of defenders,’ said Capello, ‘It is better to have a player like John than not have him.’
3298
So too, indirectly, for Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt.
Bayern Munich doctor Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt quit this week after a reported rift with Pep Guardiola .
3299
Everton will look to extend Darron Gibson's contract this summer as he recovers from the latest injury setback of his career.
'We are going to see him.
3300
The hotel is a faux-gothic Victorian castle and may look too faux to European eyes, but the lake, gardens and trails are a vast adventure playground for all ages.
3301
Timothy Crook (pictured) is alleged to have murdered his elderly parents Bob, 90, and Elsie, 83, and then driven their bodies 150 miles in a grey Nissan Micra .
3302
Ulrike Berger, 44, is barred by a court order from leaving the country with seven-year-old Kaia.
Manhunt:
3303
In contrast, 94 per cent of people in Thailand deem themselves religious, with Armenia, Bangladesh, Georgia and Morocco completing the top five on 93 per cent each.
3304
National broadcaster NHK said waves were possible on several islands in the southern Okinawa chain after a very shallow quake centred on Yonaguni in the southwest, near Taiwan.
3305
But the win came in the wake of Lukaku’s new agent Mino Raiola saying Lukaku would never have signed for Everton had he been his representative earlier.
3306
Pulis got a 1-0 win when he was Palace boss against Stoke last season, the same score by which he beat Stoke again as West Brom boss this year before then going to Selhurst Park to end Alan Pardew’s run of four wins in a row.
3307
Ferguson crashes to the turf but managed to walk away from the freak fall unscathed .
Merrion Square trainer Nicholls will have four horses racing at the Grand National on April 11 .
3308
Horan fell while caddying for the Northern Irish golfer in the traditional Par-3 Contest at Augusta while he also hit a ball into the water on the ninth tee, but the Irish singer will get some payback in September.
3309
Evacuation orders were lifted just before dawn for about 300 homes in an area along the border of the cities of Norco and Corona, about 35 miles southeast of downtown Los Angeles.
3310
Raheem Sterling gave a revealing insight into his future on Wednesday, insisting he was not a money-grabbing 20-year-old despite turning down a Liverpool contract worth £100,000-a-week.
3311
Sam Burgess made his first Premiership start at number six and, despite making a few handling errors, impressed in his new position.
Newcastle responded with a Sinoti try but Anthony Watson's score on the stroke of half-time earned Bath a 19-13 lead at the interval, and then Matt Banahan went over in the 42nd minute to give the visitors their bonus point.
3312
Bruck, of Maybee, disappeared after attending the party in Newport on October 26, about 15 miles away from where her body was discovered Friday in Monroe County's Ash Township.
3313
A sales manager who claimed he was left too disabled to work after a 'minor' road accident ten years ago has been accused of attempting a £600,000 fraud - after being pictured out in a coffee shop with his celebrity friend Max Clifford.
3314
Meeting:
Greece's prime minister met Vladimir Putin yesterday and struck potential deals over investment in energy and other projects.
3315
Russia are on the brink of making the Fed Cup final with a 2-0 lead after Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova saved a match point to beat Germany's Sabine Lisicki on Saturday.
3316
Infamous military leader: Goering, who cheated the hangman at Nuremberg by committing suicide shortly before he was due to be executed for war crimes, was deputy to Hitler and the regime's greatest art thief .
3317
Abberley threw the glass balls from the public gallery during Prime Minister's Questions, but they missed MPs and hit a security screen (file picture)
3318
And the 27-year-old felt he benefited from ideal conditions and the experience of playing with 1987 Masters champion Larry Mize, as well as amateur Byron Meth.
3319
Kevin Morton gave his son Kye Backhouse an extremely strong painkiller, a court heard - a mistake which he says he will 'have to try and live with it for the rest of my life'.
3320
Speaking to the Sun, Baltimore-based McIlvaine and Mulfinger, a physician assistant at the University of Texas, said the party was apt as they spent a lot of time flying to see one another.
3321
New York teacher Sam Pearce, 24, was discovered on the F train in New York City and now juggles his career as an eighth-grade English teacher with a side job modelling for top designers .
3322
The Vietnamese woman was waiting to board at Tan Son Nhat International Airport in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, when the incident took place.
3323
FIFA Club World Cup 2009, 2011 .
To fire Pellegrini with six games left of the Barclays Premier League season would be an admission by City’s owners that anything other than the Premier League trophy or the Champions League warrants a dismissal.
3324
Versace designer Donatella Versace, 59, is set to appear in a new ad campaign not for her own brand, but for rival design house Givenchy.
3325
A powerful figure at the base of Dortmund's midfield, Gundogan might normally have cost a sizeable chunk of Van Gaal's £150m summer budget but could be prised away for as little as £15m, given the time left on his contract.
3326
The three-time world champion is colourful, candid and carefree.
Vettel  drives during practice for the Formula One Grand Prix of China at Shanghai International Circuit .
3327
Manchester City have apologised to supporters and promised to hand out ticket refunds after coaches they laid on for free were delayed and missed the kick-off at Crystal Palace.
3328
Deadly robbery:
University President Eli Capilouto sent a note to students and staff Friday morning calling the killing 'incomprehensible.'
3329
David Alaba has given Bayern Munich some good news after posting a video on his Instagram of the cast being removed following his recent knee ligament damage.
3330
Former Goldman Sachs managing director Jason Lee, 38, faces charges of allegedly raping a 20-year-old Irish woman in the Hamptons in August 2013 .
3331
Asian carp are known for getting easily frightened by boats and reacting by leaping from the water.
3332
The baby boy was found in the female toilets of a shoe factory in Wenzhou City by a cleaner, prompting its managers to start searching for the mother.
3333
West Bromwich Albion had just produced a typical Tony Pulis performance to beat his former club Crystal Palace 2-0 when he claimed he will never change.
3334
The campaign, which also stars Alice Dellal, has so far raised £13.5m for Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research funding .
3335
Superdrug has launched a range of creams with ingredients normally found in teenage spot treatments – as well as those for anti-ageing.
3336
Bezos, who is worth $34.7billion from his online marketplace, blended in with the throngs of tourists at the Campo de' Fiori on Tuesday, happily snapping pictures of the stalls with his Amazon phone and a camera.
3337
A poll of 15,560 family doctors found that one in six is considering going part-time and 7 per cent are contemplating quitting altogether (file picture)
3338
Steve Bruce is adamant he can keep Hull City in the Barclays Premier League after a 2-0 defeat by Southampton left them battling to stay up.
3339
Inverness defender Josh Meekings prevents a goal-bound header from Celtic's Leigh Griffiths with his hand .
'I'm honest enough to tell you it's one we got away with.
3340
The amphibian, part of the Hylodes lateristrigatus group, is characterised by light stripes on its size, while it is also relatively small, according to the researchers.
3341
A dentist who pulled out a man's teeth to try and cure his erectile dysfunction has been ordered to pay 20,000 euros (£14,000) in compensation (stock image above)
3342
The official sprinted more than half the length of the field to be 10 yards from Yannick Bolasie when he completed his hat-trick for Crystal Palace in the 4-1 demolition of Sunderland.
3343
Meanwhile, foreigners fled their homes .
A peace march against xenophobia took place in Durban yesterday as foreigners fled their homes and businesses in fear .
3344
Charlie Adam (centre) lets fly from inside his own half as he scores one of the goals of his career at Chelsea
Courtois mistakenly thought the same.
3345
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has hit out at people questioning why she doesn't have children – and claimed she would never be asked if she was a man.
3346
Victim?
A former model-turned-public relations guru says the country's fashionista circles can talk about nothing but the supermodel's arrest .
3347
This difference may seem slight, but it suggests the next model of iPhone could be substantial improvement on iPhone 6 range, and rumours have hinted towards new features such as Force Touch.
3348
The leaked information, along a report that Williams lied during an interview on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, is designed to make the disgraced anchor negotiate an exit from his network, according to  media executives.
3349
A 1-0 league victory at Borussia Dortmund on Saturday despite a string of absences was crucial to boost their confidence ahead of the Cup game, goalkeeper Manuel Neuer said.
3350
'I'm still right there,' 14-time major winner Woods said of his position going into the weekend .
'You expect certain putts to roll out, but they're not rolling out.'
3351
Luke Lazarus, a 23-year-old former private school boy, was jailed for at least three years on March 27 for raping an 18-year-old virgin in an alleyway outside his father's SOHO nightclub in Kings Cross, inner Sydney in May 2013.
3352
After examining Szilveszter Dr Vijh said he had never seen anything like it and the only treatment would be to 'skin' the penis to get rid of the Vaseline and scar tissue .
3353
Hitchcock (pictured with his two granddaughters) was respected in the industry, but not liked. Marlene Dietrich called him ‘a strange little man.
3354
The couple were reported to have spent £500,000 ($750,000)  on catering, £350,000 ($500,000) on flowers  and £420,000 (($600,000) on air conditioned tents for the reception.
3355
Scroll down for video .
Musk's plan is to reuse his booster rockets rather than discard them as is the custom around the world, to reduce launch costs.
3356
Former United striker Carlos Tevez looked like he'd sent the Carling Cup semi-final into extra-time after cancelling out goals from Paul Scholes and Michael Carrick, but Rooney had other ideas, when he headed home a stoppage time goal and send his side to Wembley.
3357
Barcelona will play Bayern Munich in the Champions League semi-finals, meaning Pep Guardiola will return to the Nou Camp.
Here's how the draw unfolded...
3358
Lady killer: Another killer she dared to write was Sarah Joe Pender who was sentenced to life in prison for the murder of a couple that she and her boyfriend shared a house with in 2000 .
3359
Bibi had been married to Siddique for three years, during which time she had suffered repeated domestic abuse because the couple couldn't have children, her brother claimed.
3360
Overall, experts from the regulator removed more than 31,000 web pages featuring vile images of sexual abuse in 2014, soaring 136 per cent from around 13,000 the previous year .
3361
She told Evan Davis that Ed Miliband had been 'bullied' by the Conservatives into ruling out a coalition deal . Labour leader Mr Miliband insisted at the weekend that he is 'not interested in deals' with the SNP.
3362
Car crashes were also reported in other areas as parts of the Arabian Peninsula   
Mohammed Mohsen captures the orange cloud getting thicker as it disperses and engulfs the road .
3363
The man in his 50s, who has only been named as Mr Zhang, was travelling on his three-wheeled motorbike in Dezhou City in east China when he was hit by a car at a busy junction and thrown off his bike.
3364
The HCPC Conduct and Competence Committee today removed him from the register after hearing his crimes and describing them as 'a serious breach of trust'.
3365
Often people with dementia have good and bad days but also good and bad times during a given day - and often they may display more symptoms and anxiety as the light starts to fade, becoming confused, agitated, restless or showing repetitive behaviours.
3366
In an advert posted on Gumtree, 'Martin' informs people looking at the double room, suitable for couples, that there is a leak in the room.
3367
Oliver tries to get Snowden to explain the leak in the context of nude pictures.
The headline stated: ‘Edward Snowden tells John Oliver he did not read all leaked NSA material.’
3368
Watford (away to Brighton) will be promoted if they win and one of Bournemouth (home to Bolton, Monday) or Middlesbrough (away to Fulham) lose and Norwich (away to Rotherham) fail to win.
3369
Cows are revered in the Hindu faith .
Each head mimicked the other, meaning when she was feeding with one of her mouths, her other mouth was sucking too.
3370
This action shot was taken at Estavayer-le-Lac in Switzerland where the latest water sports craze of Jet Surfing has taken off .
Wave power:
3371
A recent Saturday Night Live skit about a male student having sex with his female high school teacher painted the relationship as every teen boy's dream, but drew a firestorm of criticism on social media .
3372
Too young: Blake Cronkhite, 5 (left), and Jayden Secrest, 3 (right), drowned when their kid-size ATV plunged into large pond in Northern California .
3373
The Sherlock star was challenged to a game by Chinese ping pong legend Deng Yaping while hosting the Laureus World Sports Awards in Shanghai, it was reported by People's Daily Online.
3374
His wife said the breakfast-time teasing was typical of the way the Prime Minister’s family keep him ‘grounded’, saying: ‘They take the mick all day long.’
3375
'We were backstage at one of the other weigh-ins and someone threw it out, would you fight Felice Herrig and I said yeah and took the fight right away.
3376
A 26-year-old employee at Ceva Logistics in Michigan secretly delivered a baby in a bathroom stall at work, stuffed the newborn inside her bag and resumed her duties .
3377
In Miami, Tony Parker scored 16 points in his 1,000th NBA game and Kawhi Leonard had 22 to lead San Antonio past the Heat 95-81.
3378
Twenty-two-year-old Rachel Jaajaa and 29-year-old Aaron Tate's daughter was found on Friday night at a McDonald’s in Elyria when a patron called 911 after seeing the baby was left alone.
3379
Journalist Sally Sara told Daily Mail Australia Ms English's story was not about finding her mother but finding 'peace with her mother land'.
3380
Anti
-Wrinkle Beauty Pillow
The £40 Anti-Wrinkle Beauty Pillow is said to banish face and chest wrinkles for sleepers who lie on their side .
3381
Demonstrators pretend to be arrested in front of the Baltimore Police Department Western District station to protest against the death in police custody of Freddie Gray .
3382
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has written off Manchester City’s chances of signing Raheem Sterling this summer by declaring the Anfield club are bigger than their Etihad rivals and making it clear they have no intention of becoming their feeder team.
3383
Tibor Racsits, 42, had gone to pick up his daughter Kiara from the movies at Charlestown Square in Newcastle, north of Sydney, on Sunday night when they were attacked.
3384
‘The return of Vietnamese asylum seekers to the very country and government that they have escaped from exposes the truth about the government’s policies: that they do not save people, but repel people who may need our help.
3385
Scientists have revealed that the rediscovered fossil dubbed 'Pessie' (pictured) may have lived at the bottom of the freshwater lakes that would later become Loch Ness .
3386
United are currently above rivals Manchester City by one point and looking for a top two finish - where they can qualify automatically for the group stages - but Mata knows his side can't afford to slip-up in the final seven games.
3387
Hibs boss Alan Stubbs is among the front-runners for the manager's job at Wigan Athletic after Malky Mackay was sensationally sacked on Monday.
3388
A Japanese woman got sweet revenge on her cheating boyfriend by giving his Apple collection a good wash.
Just to make doubly sure the water damage was total.
3389
Charles' letter was read at Hayley's funeral by Father Michael Bailey at All Saints Church in Sidley, Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, where more than 250 colourfully-dressed mourners gathered this afternoon.
3390
A spokesman for the site said: 'We know that there are times when people might want to share nude images that are artistic or creative in nature, but for a variety of reasons, we don’t allow nudity on Instagram.
3391
Hashim Amla has signed a short-term contract to play five matches for Derbyshire, starting next month .
3392
During the 2011 incident in Garland, felony warrants were issued for Talib and his mother Okolo Talib on charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon.
3393
The teenager from Lahore in Punjab province Pakistan, who has been identified only as Nuaman, is recovering in hospital from burns to 55 percent of his body .
3394
Royal Mail is to issue a set of stamps marking 200 years since the birth of Anthony Trollope – the Victorian novelist who also introduced post boxes to the UK in the 1850s.
3395
As campaign manager for Clinton's successful 2000 Senate run, de Blasio said on Sunday it is important for Clinton to define her campaign message (Clinton and de Blasio pictured together at the Wildlife Conservation Society Gala in June 2014)
3396
The Karen was towed at 10 knots during yesterday's incident 18 miles from Ardglass on the south-east shore of Northern Ireland and the vessel was badly damaged.
3397
Meanwhile the Met Office has predicted warmer-than-average temperatures for April, May and June of this year in its long-range forecast.
3398
Sir David Nicholson said the so-called 'Stevens plan' both parties have signed up to, which involves the government injecting £8 billion cash into the NHS while gaining £22 billion from efficiency savings, will be difficult to implement.
3399
Stranded residents of last week's devastating floods, who were unable to cross the water to attend an Anzac Day memorial service, were thrilled after a cornet player treated them to a rendition of the Last Post from the water's edge.
3400
The author said Kate (pictured right) hasn’t lived up to the fashion icon reputation of Princess Diana (left) Miss Atwood said she thinks the duchess is cautious when it comes to clothes and is told what to wear by advisers.
3401
Health bosses are considering raising the legal age for buying alcohol to 21 to tackle binge drinking.
He said: ‘If it was 21 now, I would not be calling for it to be lowered.’
3402
Alice Pond applies nail paint to a baby tawny owl which hatched on April 8 at Small Breeds Farm Park and Owl Centre.
They all look very similar'
3403
It comes as survivor Cynthia Cheroitich, 19, who spent two days hiding in a wardrobe and drinking body lotion to survive, was rescued after al-Shabaab gunmen stormed Garissa University College on Thursday.
3404
A wife has told how she has put her husband on a lifelong sex ban and tracks his every move, after discovering he had cheated on her after taking a lie detector test.
3405
A spokesman for the Crown Office said: 'Alexander Pacteau, 21, from Glasgow, made a second appearance at Glasgow Sheriff Court today charged with the murder of Karen Buckley, and with attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
3406
The 26-year-old royal was joined by boyfriend, Virgin Galactic's Dave Clark, 31, and looked glamorous in her knee-length black leather dress.
Visit site .
3407
Former Florida State University student Erica Kinsman filed a civil lawsuit against top NFL prospect Jameis Winston, saying he assaulted and raped her at an off-campus apartment in 2012 .
3408
Club legend and assistant coach Fernando Hierro believes Real Madrid are capable of winning a second consecutive Champions League - as it's in the Spanish sides DNA.
3409
Sentenced: Rebecca Calder, 24, who was jailed for a year today, went out drinking on the same night she used her victims' bank cards to withdraw large amounts of cash, pictured left and right .
3410
Fans draped in Union flags and carrying balloons and placards, including Terry Hutt (left) and John Loughrey (right), have already set up camp near the Lindo Wing at St Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, central London .
3411
Which is why when the singer headed out to a restaurant in Santa Monica to eat on Tuesday night without a bra, she was most likely paying a nod to the latest trend - ditching the bra.
3412
Detectives have issued CCTV images of the suspect, who is 50 to 60, 5ft 9in to 6ft and was wearing black clothing .
3413
It's been a taxing time for Chris, his wife Naomi, 32, and his two young sons Tomas, 4, and Liam, 1, but they remain positive that thanks to his treatment they will still share many happy years together.
3414
Lewis Hamilton waves after qualifying on pole position for the Bahrain Grand Prix on Saturday and is flanked by Sebastian Vettel (left) and team-mate Nico Rosberg who qualified second and third respectivley .
3415
What had led up to the removal of the four sisters in Australia and their return to Italy was the fact that their mother had taken them from their home in Italy on a 'vacation' and never returned, claiming the girls' father Tomaso was an abuser .
3416
Genital herpes is highly contagious and spreads from one person to another via skin-to-skin contact.
It is commonly passed on through sex and oral sex.
3417
Research has revealed that the frequency with which Britons are having sex has been in decline since the emergence of the internet (file picture)
3418
Luis Suarez eases past David Luiz en route to scoring his second goal of the Champions League tie .
They were better than us tonight and scored three goals.
3419
Representatives from Comcast and Time Warner Cable will meet with US Department of Justice officials to discuss concerns raised by their planned $45billion merger, according to reports.
3420
Celebrities who have eaten their own placentas include Mad Men star January Jones (left) and Atomic Kitten singer Natasha Hamilton (right)
3421
Although Louis was seen wearing the same white 'Brooklyn' jumper when he was pictured with the suspicious 'cigarette', the garment he was seen walking around the hotel in the following day, the Snapchat images show him to be wearing a t-shirt.
3422
Liberation Day itself will turn St Peter Port and Jersey's capital St Helier into swirls of people and music.
Guernsey tourist information: www.visitguernsey.com .
3423
‘I said, “Excuse me, I don’t want you to take this the wrong way, but I felt really awkward at the table – it would have been nice if you had said good evening when I said good evening”.
3424
While firearms are strictly prohibited, hunting fans can practice archery deer hunting at Pittsburgh International airport up until October.
3425
The Lyttle family has previously said they believe the charge against Lyttle should be dropped .
Patrick Lyttle (right) said he had made a 'fantastic recovery'
3426
The 21-year-old became somewhat infamous late last year for video of him screaming 'I don't like mens no more - I like women, women, women!' after a pastor at an evangelical megachurch claimed to have cured his homosexuality.
3427
The United States Geological Survey said the quake struck 81 kilometres (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 06.11 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside of their homes .
3428
He was never going to be asked to play another year of Spanish third division football so if Castilla fail to go up to the second division he will be loaned out next season.
3429
Later in the year, researchers will test the entire system against targets using a 10kW laser as a stepping stone to a 30kW laser.
3430
Despite looking like an ideal holiday retreat, the cabin also comes with permission to live in it all year round.
It became a National Park in 2005.
3431
What I’ve got to do is make sure he’s got that decision to make.
'That’s the decision he had to make and now Jack has got to make that decision.
3432
An Indiana university was in lockdown late on Friday night after a 'likely prank call' about an armed person near the main administration building, school officials said.
3433
It's a great chance for Granada as Sergio Ramos refuses to close down Robert Ibanez after a terrible throw from Iker Casillas but luckily for the Real Madrid pair, the Granada man drags his shot inches wide .
4 mins:
3434
Tony Lopez Lozano, 35, was charged with the August 2013 murder of his boyfriend, Brian Romo, after fatally stabbing Romo in the heart following an argument at their Oregon City home, The Oregonian reports.
3435
Once famed for his mop of blacker than black hair, disgraced Democrat Rod Blagojevich, 58, has really let his haircare regime go while he serves his prison time.
3436
The annual Water Temple Fair in Jiangnan, China, sees thousands gather on boats to pray for good fortune for the upcoming year.
Tourism:
3437
Their research found that as the North Sea warms, species won't be able to migrate north to avoid warming temperatures because habitat of a suitable depth is rare.
3438
Nicola Adams has no intention of following her former Great Britain team-mate Natasha Jonas into retirement as she focuses on becoming a double Olympic gold medallist in Rio next year.
3439
, KUOW reported.
Unfortunately, a Navy spokesman said the USS Independence and the USS Kitty Hawk are not 'currently available'.
3440
Sister Gerald, who lives at the mission, said Sister Gertrud had dedicated her life to helping impoverished children and adolescents.
3441
Palaeontologists are referring to Chilesaurus diegosuarezi as a 'platypus' dinosaur because of its bizarre combination of characteristics including its small skull and feet, which are more like those seen on long-neck dinosaurs.
3442
Smokey Da Lamb has been turning heads in some of the city's coolest neighborhoods ever since restaurant owner Sandy Dee Hall, 34, and his girlfriend Maxine Cher, 24, adopted him.
3443
The Phobos orbital mission would last approximately 30 months, with nine months of travel each way and 12 months in orbit, the panelists said.
3444
Neil Killham made the infamous shepherds pie-trifle combination immortalised on Friends 16 years ago.
'A couple of people tried it with me last night and agreed it was terrible.
3445
The profile, which no longer has a picture, describes a blue-eyed 'adventurer' who is 'looking for a relationship' O'Clee (middle) was jailed for eight months after his first wife Michelle (pictured left) exposed him as a cheat who was also married to Philippa Campbell (right)
3446
His subjects look like they can't get over the fact they've had to retire, or like they never quite passed at superhero school.
Everyone is a superhero.
3447
Mr Farage resisted the temptation to let the ITV cameras into this home, perhaps after Ed Miliband's problems with his second kitchen.
3448
At 5 ft 7 in, the 39-year-old Oscar-winner is certainly no towering Amazon, but nonetheless she commands an out-of-the-ordinary UK size-nine shoe.
3449
Buckingham Palace confirmed His Royal Highness Prince Edward's injury and said: 'The Duke of Kent was admitted on Monday to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, where he was successfully treated for a dislocated hip.
3450
He said: 'She also saw Petr Tancos standing by and directing one of the men to cut the grass with a kitchen knife.'
He only received about £10 from Martin Tancos.
3451
Gary Neville tore into Manchester City following their defeat against Crystal Palace by insisting the champions have a 'mentality problem' which prevents them from winning back-to-back titles.
3452
The two four-year pilot culls in Somerset and Gloucestershire should be completed by trapping the badgers in cages and then shooting them, says the BVA.
3453
While most football fans face travel misery over Easter, Manchester City have laid on free coaches to take their supporters to London for Monday's Premier League clash with Crystal Palace.
3454
Miss González Durántez (left) with designer Kelly Hoppen (centre) and Bafta chief executive Amanda Berry (right) at the event in London celebrating inspirational women and ethical fashion .
3455
The Star Wars website released this Twitter describing the storyline for the film, which is described as an anthology movie adding to the Star Wars universe .
3456
Obviously we didn’t start the season as well as we would have liked, we’ve definitely shown qualities and the manager has shown us stats from the start of the year and we’ve probably been one of the better teams in the league.'
3457
The hysterical Real Housewife broke down in tears and went into full meltdown  as observers revealed she bolted from the room where Dr Phil had offered to help place her in a top treatment program.
3458
Collins, 22, (right) has been stationed at Buckingham Palace since the attack.
Smith was given a 12 month sentence suspended, while Collins received a 12-month community order.
3459
Ringholt, the tour guide for the retrospective, which highlights the 70-year-old American artist's 50 years of work, said the experience creates an 'educational state' for viewing the art.
3460
City overtook Liverpool with one match to go before being crowned champions last season and in 2012, Sergio Aguero's injury-time strike in the final game sank Manchester United on goal difference.
3461
Hill has had part of her toe removed and a skin graft from her inner thigh and then after about a week doctors will decide if she needs anymore treatment.
3462
Tim Sherwood’s team were set to drop into the bottom three when Charlie Austin scored his 17th Premier League goal of the season 12 minutes from the end, before Benteke’s intervention five minutes later to cap off a pulsating game.
3463
City, meanwhile, will resist any attempt by Valencia to pull out of a £24million deal for Alvaro Negredo to fund a move for Radamel Falcao, currently on loan at Manchester United.
3464
Oxford University women’s rowing team beat Cambridge – inspiring their male colleagues to win for the third time running in the 161st race.
3465
Last year the Department of Conservation only granted permits to two cage diving operators under the condition that they observe strict regulations around feeding and using decoys.
3466
Police visited the Wembley home of Burnell Mitchell, a director of the community centre where Mr Arwani used to preach regularly .
Raid:
Car:
3467
He told Gazzetta dello Sport: 'Is Cavani on the market?
Manchester United striker Robin van Persie is a target for Serie A sides Juventus and Inter Milan this summer .
3468
Chelsea and Atletico held talks over Miranda last summer when Jose Mourinho's side moved to sign Diego Costa and Felipe Luis, but the defender rejected a move to London – as well as United – to remain in Madrid.
3469
Just over 60 per cent of Americans believe global warming is taking place and nearly half blame humans for the change.
3470
A coastguard helicopter, rescue teams and lifeboats were launched to search off the coast of Hill Head - and police revealed shortly after midday today that a body had been found.
3471
Owen Farrell hopes to be in contention for Saracens' European Champions Cup semi-final against Clermont Auvergne on April 18.
The knee is feeling good.
3472
But when asked what had happened, Logan and her supervisor, Lauren Gillies, lied, saying Mrs Rider had fallen out of bed.
What they did is disgusting.’
3473
It ends with Bruce looking to the future, and asking how his 'story' will end.
Looking to the future: The clip ends with Bruce asking 'how does my story end'
3474
And though he claims he became a serious contender at schools across the nation as a black man, he doesn't specify if he went through the application process as an American-Indian man.
3475
His record of 36 league goals for the season overtook Lionel Messi's 32 strikes, and put him in the incredible position of having scored more goals than 53 of the 98 teams in Europe's top five leagues this season.
3476
Wayne Rooney cut a forlorn figure after being spotted filling up his £100,000 Overfinch Range Rover, just a couple of days after his side's loss to Chelsea - despite having 70 per cent possession.
3477
Guardiola watched the shootout calmly from a chair on the sidelines.
Bayern's Dante from and Leverkusen's Stefan Kiessling challenge for the ball during the German cup game .
3478
Here, simple Oldowan tools have previously been found, linked to the earliest known hominins 1.4 million years ago, reported Popular Archaeology.
3479
A 36-year-old Louisiana sheriff's deputy was directing traffic near a school zone this morning when he was ambushed and shot three times in what has been described as a road rage incident sparked by an argument over traffic.
3480
Angelita Muxfeldt (right), cousin of executed Brazilian drug convict Rodrigo Gularte, checks the condition of the body of her cousin at the hospital morgue in Jakarta on Wednesday .
3481
Medical marijuana activist Shona Banda, 37, is fighting for custody of her 11-year-old son after his comments about marijuana at a school presentation prompted police to search her home .
3482
Mary Portas says the problem with Tesco 'is that no one really likes the company' Sir Richard Greenbury, former chief executive of Marks & Spencer .
3483
Alan Shearer and Paul Ince were extraordinary.
It’s why Simeone so related to Shearer and Ince and their performance in that extraordinary 2-2 draw in St Etienne.
3484
It's not the first time racing ace Lewis Hamilton has sprayed a grid girl with bubbly - he's also done it after winning the Spanish Grand Prix and even at the Austrian Grand Prix, where he lost out on the top spot .
3485
’ The school has made counselling services available for students and held ‘community support coffee mornings’ to help bring staff, students and parents together during the school holidays. ‘A community united grows stronger,’ the school vowed.
3486
When approached by the Mail, bosses at Sequester, which describes itself as a data controller, claimed they had never actually distributed any information on eating disorders or any of the other sensitive health information advertised in the email.
3487
Around one in 10 Americans suffer from explosive anger management issues and has easy access to guns, a study has found.
In a movie theatre in Aurora.
3488
But Arsenal would be foolish to dismiss anything over £30m in today's market, especially considering the kind of players Wenger can now attract to the club.
3489
Kyle Major, from Blackpool, Lancashire, followed his victim - who had just asked his group of friends for directions - and felled him from behind with a punch to the back of the head.
3490
McCubberry said when the pair met on a fishing trip 20 years ago 'we quickly learned we shared the belief that the language we grew up with was waning'
3491
Wigan chairman David Sharpe, who only recently took over from his grandfather Dave Whelan, said the move was made to get an immediate reaction but that the club see Caldwell as their long-term leader.
3492
Adrien Broner posted this photo of the feast on offer as he labelled Mayweather as his 'big bro' Chef Q has been cooking for Floyd Mayweather since his fight for Manny Pacquaio was announced .
3493
'If you can buy him time with surgery then the hope is you're going to get a good response to the chemotherapy and radiotherapy and a significant extension of time,' he said.
3494
Dominika Petrinova decided to get her painful revenge by gluing wax strips to the plastic chair after her boyfriend's previous prank where he told her that their pet dog called Sam was in the washing machine .
3495
Prime Minister Tony Abbott (left) publicly backed McGregor (right) by introducing her on ABC's Australian Story, when she detailed her struggles as a man and then as a trans-woman .
3496
He is representing the heirs of art dealer Paul Rosenberg in their bid to recover Henri Matisse's 1921 Femme Assise (left) which was found in a squalid Munich apartment along with this Marc Chagall painting (right) 'The painting was found covered by a layer of grime.
3497
'The family were all enjoying their last ski run over the small jumps and bumps at the side of the slope together, when Carwyn's sister lost her ski on a jump and at this point Carwyn skied ahead,' it said.
3498
Matthew Hall, 25, climbed onto the balconies in  of his victims in Manchester's fashionable Northern Quarter district and hid, asking when confronted 'am I scaring you?' and 'you're dead sexy - can I come in?'
3499
Mr Adusah is the leader of Global Light Revival Ministries church based in Tottenham, north London and has been active as a preacher in Britain since 2010 .
3500
As Shrewsbury Town won promotion to League One after beating Cheltenham Town 1-0 yesterday, the Shrewsbury players revealed T-shirts paying tribute to Bloomfield and young supporter Lloyd Burton, who also passed away from cancer this week.
3501
Not one to put her assets at risk, Emily, a former beauty writer, moisturises her hands up to ten times a day to keep them looking their best.
3502
Justin Welby will say in his Easter sermon that 148 Christian students slaughtered by Somali gunmen on Thursday were ‘witnesses’ to their faith and suffered ‘cruel deaths’.
3503
Four days ago she spoke at the Republican Leadership Summit in Nashua, New Hampshire, answering a female conservative business leader's claim that only men should sit in the Oval Office because women are under the influence of their hormones and can't reliably control themselves.
3504
The authors suggest that runways could be synced with aircraft to alert birds to incoming planes and avoid collisions (stock image shown).
3505
One fighter, using the Twitter handle Jannahtain, posted a photo of a Burger King Whopper burger and stated: 'That moment when a bro your (sic) helping cross the border into (Syria) asks you if you need anything from Turkey.
3506
The photographs were taken by Bowers under the direction of the official photographer Herbert Ponting at the expedition base camp of Cape Evans on Ross Island.
3507
Scouts from Juventus were present at the Stade de France last Thursday night specifically to watch Oscar in action against Didier Deschamps' side.
3508
The 26-year-old was chosen by the brand last year thanks to her 'modern, cool and quintessentially British edge.'
'It's a fail safe range,' says Daisy.
3509
All that’s unpleasant about male behaviour is ascribed to testosterone, yet as Joe Herbert explains, testosterone is at the heart of human life .
3510
Manchester United have 31 Premier League wins against Aston Villa, the joint-most of any team against any opponent in the history of the competition (along with Man Utd v Everton).
3511
Weiner ran for Mayor of New York City last year, only to see his stock tumble with a second round of sexting allegations, this time confirmed by the woman he was exchanging racy messages with.
3512
Among the precious finds were elaborate chariots buried with Hun warlords, unique fabrics, ancient jewellery, plaques decorated in silver and gold, and carvings of fantastical creatures.
3513
A couple heard the terrifying message: 'Wake up little boy, daddy's looking for you' come through their 3-year-old son's baby monitor (stock image)
3514
Apple's Watch officially went on sale today but anyone turning up to buy one on the high street will be disappointed as none of its stores have them in stock.
3515
French defender Jeremy Mathieu scored a diving header as league leaders Barcelona beat Celta Vigo 1-0 .
3516
A little girl with Down syndrome is every bit a princess when visiting Disney World and modeling the beautiful dresses her mother sews for her.
3517
Dress to impress: Bishop said she 'absolutely' wears her beloved Christian Louboutin high heels in Parliament  and when she met Jimmy Choo for the first time, she wore her favourite leopard-print Choo stilettos .
3518
Greek government have proposed new laws banning teams from European competitions, but UEFA general secretary Gianni Infantino says they are not allowed to directly interfere with football .
3519
The aggressor, driving a Toyota, even refused to stop fighting as Solis and his friend tried to end the attack, and at one point got in the face of Solis' friend.
3520
Brian Cassidy, right, is pictured being presented with a Bangor Police Department Challenge coin by an officer after he found $4,400 cash in a Walmart parking lot and alerted security .
3521
Liverpool striker Daniel Sturridge believes Raheem Sterling will only be happy if he plays regularly and hopes he will remain at the club to do that.
3522
The baby girl, found in the disabled toilets at the arcade (pictured) on Neville Street, has been named April by staff caring for her at Ormskirk Hospital.
3523
Rodgers, who has Steven Gerrard available for the FA Cup semi-final with Aston Villa, spoke to Sterling and Ibe in his office on Thursday but neither will be disciplined and Rodgers now wants to draw a line under the matter.
3524
Archaeologists are almost certain that the tomb was intended for a noblewoman and believe that the man she is lying with may have been killed so he could be buried with her.
3525
They found that the intense but short-lived heat near the impact site could not have ignited live plants, challenging the idea that the impact led to global firestorms.
3526
During his visit, Jamaican Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller (pictured right with Obama) told Obama that he is well-loved in Jamaica .
3527
Mr Song was rushed to hospital where surgeons battled to save him, but he later died from broken ribs and massive internal bleeding, doctors said .
3528
She had been arrested and booked at the Santa Rita Jail for suspicion of resisting arrest, battery on a police officer and public intoxication on St. Patrick's Day of 2014.
3529
Grokker founder and CEO Lorna Borenstein said more men . are adding yoga to their exercise routines as a cross-training . tool for flexibility and improving recovery time.
3530
All four men are seen on their knees in central Mosul as the knife-wielding Islamic State militants swarm upon them to carry out the brutal beheadings .
3531
With no cell phone reception to call for help, owner Tom George had to leave his dog Shelby stuck in a pool by  the Great Salt Lake's Spiral Jetty and drive an hour out to the nearest  town.
3532
Treadwell won the race on Venetia Williams-trained 100-1 shot Mon Mome in 2009.
Treadwell rode Venetia Williams-trained 100-1 shot Mon Mome to victory at Aintree five years ago .
3533
In scenes more familiar in the most impoverished refugee camps, scores of downtrodden Syrians wait in line for hours for food in the terror group's self-declared capital Raqqa.
3534
Brazilians and Argentines are known to be rivals when it comes to football, however Moura has singled out Messi for special praise ahead of his side's Champions League encounter against Barcelona.
3535
A few days later Renault endured a Chinese Grand Prix to forget as Daniil Kvyat's Red Bull and the Toro Rosso of Max Verstappen both suffered a power-unit failure.
3536
Wylie Brys (pictured) and his dad, Dallas zookeper Tim Brys, were digging for fossils near a grocery store when Wylie found the dinosaur bones .
3537
'We know that dark matter exists because of the way that it interacts gravitationally, helping to shape the universe, but we still know embarrassingly little about what dark matter actually is,' said team member Dr Liliya Williams of the University of Minnesota.
3538
Asda said: 'We have had one customer complaint that the teat has broken away and detached from the hard casing, so we have taken the precaution of taking the product off sale and recalling from customers due to the possible choking risk.
3539
When I'm mad, my brain can get a headache and it can start hurting,' says one child, explaining what goes on in his head when he starts to feel angry .
3540
Adams and other family members were at home at the time but were not aware of the break-in, in which two cars, training kit and valuable personal possessions were taken.
3541
Scottish drinkers are so cautious of the country's new drink-driving limits bar sales have plummeted by 60 per cent - a reduction in spending so severe it's damaging the country's financial growth.
3542
Between 2004, when he was elected MEP and 2009, Mote claimed a total of £750,000 in Parliamentary Assistance Allowance, taking into account his legitimate claims and any alleged fraudulent activity.
3543
Cohen alleged in the interview with the news outlet that she and Medley feared for their safety, and said their home addresses had been shared online by Byrd's family members.
3544
Catalans Dragons have suffered a blow after winger Vincent Duport was ruled out for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury.
3545
Nadal will play 13th seed Fabio Fognini of Italy or Russian qualifier Andrey Rublev on Thursday for a place in Friday's quarter-finals.
3546
The Parole Board is reviewing the case of Colin Pitchfork, who was jailed for life in 1988 on the basis of DNA evidence after raping and killing two schoolgirls .
3547
The unidentified caller said Ukip’s Grimsby party had been unfair to Mrs Ayling – because she had kept the matter quiet to protect her son.
3548
Clyde continues to focus on his plate and isn't bothered by his new company and from the sound of their names, it sounds like they might become partners in crime-or 'pawtners' in dog speak.
3549
Levy sacked Sherwood last May to bring in Mauricio Pochettino, ending the 46-year-old’s five-month stay in charge, and six-year relationship with the club at development level. ‘Daniel Levy has known me for a lot of years,’ said Sherwood.
3550
Evnika shows no sign of tiredness as she unleashes a ten-punch combination before going back to her original pad work drill and then repeating the process.
3551
Sam Allardyce's West Ham are top of the Premier League Fair Play table, sitting just above Burnley .
1. West Ham .
4. Manchester City .
3552
The 37-year-old was sailing on a traditional wooden cruise boat along the Mekong river in Laos with three friends when it hit a rock in a stretch of rapids.
3553
Benzema's club team-mate James Rodriguez, who has recently returned to full fitness following a foot injury, has heaped praise on Carlo Ancelotti ahead of Real's Champions League showdown with Atletico.
3554
The High Court ruled today that United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust must pay in excess of £14.6 million  for birth injuries, after failing to carry out a Caesarean section on Suzanne Adams and properly monitor her during labour.
3555
Chris Ramsey has hailed Tony Pulis as one of the best British coaches in the country, but insists he doesn’t need to take any tactical tips from the experienced relegation dodger.
3556
A 10-year-old Huddersfield Town supporter has been removed from his role as a mascot for Reading in their FA Cup semi-final against Arsenal on Saturday after a video emerged of him saying he hopes The Gunners win.
3557
In 2009, Ms Lapthorne’s father, Dale Lapthorne, said the only information he would release from one of the reports was that Britt's body was in the water the whole time she was missing.
3558
I don’t know when Cheryl’s birthday is, but I know that Bernard does not know too.
Albert said: 'I don’t know when Cheryl’s birthday is, but I know that Bernard does not know too.
3559
After angering locals with an initial proposal, the developer has now submitted fresh plans to demolish the John Nash-designed Park Crescent West and rebuild it as apartments.
3560
Janner, it should be stressed, strongly denied the allegations against him – including claims of rape – when they surfaced nearly 25 years ago at the trial of Frank Beck, a care-home warden suspected of abusing scores of children in his care.
3561
The Hobart International Airport website has been shut down after it was hacked and defaced with a statement supporting the radical Islamist group ISIS, also known as Islamic State or IS.
3562
The Sacramento Bee reported Weber still has his driver's license -- and also pointed out that a since-deceased 105-year-old Colorado man holds the record for being the oldest pilot ever, according to Guinness.
3563
The couple, pictured last year, have not listed the reasons behind their divorce, citing only 'conflict' Katie Hamilton, pictured with her oldest daughter, Julia, will appear on the upcoming 10th season of the Real Housewives of Orange County.
3564
Vet Nick Fisher, 31, from Leintwardine, Shropshire, said his bedlington lurcher Twiglet (pictured) was left behaving strangely after eating the drugs he found at a bus stop while on a walk near their home last Monday .
3565
Today she weighs in at a healthy 9st 9lb and is due to run a 10k race on Sunday, when two years she would have struggled to walk half a mile, let alone run six.
Sharon says her weight was down to commuting to London for her job as a clothes designer but after quitting her job to go freelance and work from home, Sharon was able to exercise at lunch .
3566
Mario Balotelli hit back at those criticising his absence for Liverpool's FA Cup quarter-final win over Blackburn Rovers due to illness by attempting to prove he had a high temperature.
3567
During a trial lasting nearly six months, prosecutors accused the defendants of erasing incorrect answers or instructing students to change their answers so the educators could secure promotions and cash bonuses in the 50,000-student Atlanta school system in 2009.
3568
Cancer survivor Jonas Gutierrez will trigger a contract extension at Newcastle should he start the remaining seven matches of the campaign.
3569
The Duchess of Cornwall now enjoys a close relationship with the Queen .
The Duchess of Cornwall enjoys a friendly relationship with the Duchess of Cambridge .
3570
Tanya Heath Paris features hundreds of heel varieties that slide and click into place, and can be released at the push of a button .
3571
The judge has said she expects closing arguments to be delivered on Tuesday or Wednesday .
The judge has said she expects closing arguments to be delivered on Tuesday or Wednesday.
3572
Four wickets in the game would take him past Botham's national record of 383 Test wickets, making Anderson the most prolific English bowler in history.
3573
The Welshman, who is a former Barcelona striker and who has previously signed forward Bojan Krkic and defender Marc Muniesa for Stoke from the Catalan outfit, added: 'We are trying to improve the quality of the Under-21 group and he (El Ouriachi) is a good young player.
3574
Bayern Munich's Thomas Muller led the post-Porto celebrations at the Allianz Arena on Tuesday, climbing into the crowd with a loudhailer .
3575
Beckham's son Brooklyn, who was sat in the audience as his dad retold the embarrassing story, is aiming to follow in his father's footsteps by becoming a professional footballer.
3576
Last year Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella (pictured) was forced to apologize for saying that women don't need to ask for a raise and should just trust the system to pay them well .
3577
China's current President Xi Jinping has overseen a harsh crackdown against critics of the ruling Communist Party, with scores of journalists, lawyers and academics detained and dozens jailed .
3578
In the description of Jeff West’s campaign, he explains that his 4-year-old grandson, who used to call him 'Paw Paw,' had been taught how to swim young, but the shock of falling into cold water, combined with the boy's chronic asthma, caused Austin to go under.
3579
A French bus driver has proposed putting on a separate service for Roma passengers - because the 'unbearable' smell is a health risk to everyone on board.
3580
The details of George Osborne's leaked plans are unclear, but it is believed to mean that minimum wage earners wouldn' t be paying any income tax .
3581
The researchers studied stone tools that were used by people in the Early Ahmarian culture and the Protoaurignacian culture, living in south and west Europe and west Asia around 40,000 years ago.
3582
Arrested:
Trixie (pictured) is a mixed-breed family dog and was knifed by Doody while she was allegedly high on bath salts on Sunday .
Cruelty:
3583
The goal of the DES is to map 12.5 per cent of the entire sky, creating a 3D map of dark matter - and dark energy.
 The survey has just completed its second year.
3584
Statistics collected at Maastricht University in Holland, where cannabis is decriminalised, have shown that students who were able to buy the drug from coffee shops were five percent less likely to pass their courses.
3585
Mr Rose (pictured with Jimmy White, left, and Nigel Farage, right) branded police involvement as 'absolutely ridiculous', adding that voters in the marginal seat were unlikely to 'change their mind for a sausage roll'
3586
The 47-year-old dubbed modern pop artists as existing in a 'selfie generation' of stars who use their music to reveal only how they feel.
3587
The 14-year-old boy was remanded in custody after he was charged with inciting terror overseas was planning a 'Lee Rigby-style' attack during an Anzac Day ceremony in Melbourne, Australia (pictured)
3588
One man who definitely looked back to his best form was Broad, who bowled beyond 90mph for the first time since returning from surgery while claiming three wickets for 19 when rain finally relented.
3589
Police say 35-year-old Lakenya Hall, of Kenner, drove the children to a fight just after 5pm Wednesday after a previous fight at a bus stop.
3590
Miss Carvalho, pictured mid-workout, said last year that by re-becoming a virgin, she hopes to bring 'a bit of respect and new concept to the Miss BumBum title'
3591
Despite his daughter remaining in a medically induced coma since she was found unresponsive in a bathtub at her Atlanta home in January, singer Bobby Brown told an audience on Saturday night that she is 'awake.'
3592
Since the assault when she was 25-years-old, Ms Vulin spent two years and eight months wearing a compression mask to help put her face back together.
3593
I don't like to drink alcohol,' Amanda tells viewers in answer to their questions, before introducing some followers she's come across at the bar.
3594
Both pilots have been derostered after the captain of flight AI611 complained that the co-pilot had misbehaved and struck him, the Times of India reported.
3595
Flame-haired actress Jessica Chastain is another red dipping her toe into blonde waters, as she will transform her red hair to play perhaps the most iconic blonde of all time, 1950s bombshell, Marilyn Monroe.
3596
Stancil's mother Debbie, pictured at his graduation, said Lane had made unwanted sexual comments towards her son, but she denied her son's claim that Lane had abused a young relative .
3597
The details were included in a database of 30,287 documents and 173,132 emails that was uploaded to the WikiLeaks website after hackers stole them from Sony Pictures Entertainment, the company’s movie division, last November.
3598
The Mexico international broke down in tears after scoring the goal that beat rivals Atletico Madrid in the Champions League quarter final and was hailed as the golden boy of Real.
3599
Ms Smith told Daily Mail Australia last month she was 'baffled' when reports emerged this week where friends raised doubts about Ms Gibson's medical diagnoses and charity donations.
3600
Brett Robinson is facing 12 charges related to sexual misconduct and official misconduct after allegedly letting the inmate out of his cell multiple times and engaging in sex acts  between March and July last year.
3601
Today, the pony remains a popular choice for riders of all ages, among them the Queen who breeds Fell ponies at her Hampton Court stud.
3602
'The assumption is that they will never be dishonest but they will respect your willingness to participate and not look to include things you think would embarrass your family.'
3603
But despite the financial problems, Uvarenko, who joined the Bulgarian club on an 18-month contract in January, has been impressed by the 'unique' fans and their passionate support.
3604
The San Bernardino County sheriff, John McMahon, has ordered an investigation into the incident, branding the video 'disturbing'.
3605
Bruce Jenner, pictured on 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' will speak out in a 'far-ranging' interview with Diane Sawyer later this month, ABC News announced on Monday .
3606
Likewise, North America broke apart from Europe and headed on a gradual collision course with South America.
'Yes, the plates are moving today,' Montes said.
3607
Prosecutors argue McDonnell's behavior was a better fit with bribery laws than that of convicted former congressman William Jefferson, who his $100,000 of his bribe cash in his freezer .
3608
The bear, nicknamed Mishutka, may be a cute little cub right now, but he will soon grow to become a massive beast that will pose a danger to the family and become expensive to feed and shelter.
3609
Cheng bought 20 square metres of plastic in total which he cut them into 13 parts, including the helmet, mask, chest and limb protectors .
3610
Sir Oliver Popplewell, the judge who conducted the 1985 Bradford fire public inquiry, says police should look at eight other fires allegedly connected to the then club chairman to 'see if there was anything sinister'.
3611
Bloomberg and Johnson have met before - and at one meeting in 2013, Johnson even joked about doing a 'job swap' with Bloomberg - though there is no suggestion Johnson has set his sights on New York City.
3612
Jasmine was treated successfully with medication which shrunk the blood vessels over two weeks and her mother claims doctors were surprised she survived.
3613
King was shot dead by James Earl Ray on 4 April 1968 at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee in a killing which galvanized the civil rights movement.
Also destroyed from the Miami field office was the file on Joseph Milteer, a well-known racist who is known for a covertly recorded interview he gave in 1963 in which he talks about the Kennedy assassination and the King assassination before they happened.
3614
The four – Joshua Finbow, 23, a submarine engineer, Craig Stoner, 24, Simon Radford, 31, and Darren Smalley, 35 – had been playing for the Royal Navy ice hockey team in a tournament at the Shearwater naval base just east of Halifax.
3615
Dalton has already received new lungs, but Katie is waiting as Kentucky Medicaid will not pay for the out-of-state-treatment she needs at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center .
3616
Not even having the Premier League's top goalscorer in Harry Kane has placed them among the elite again — and it is hard to see how that will change if this is the plan.
3617
One of Argentina's top referees is under investigation and faces a possible ban after overturning a red card and penalty decision based on a television replay.
3618
Robbie McNamara is feeling 'great and optimistic' as he continues to recover from serious injuries suffered in a fall at Wexford.
3619
Parent company Lufthansa said Lubitz told officials at an airline training school he had gone through a period of severe depression in the past, raising questions over whether medical checks of crew members by the safety regulators and airlines are rigorous enough.
3620
Luka Modric 7 - Majestic in the first half as Madrid dominated but faded like his team in the second.
Ronaldo was just as responsible as Bale and Benzema for that.
3621
According to Peter's father, the letter submitted to The Weekly Standard took six-months to write because troubled Peter was  'too angry' to write it all down in one sitting.
3622
The awards also awarded its chef of the year accolade, which this year went to Swiss chef Daniel Humm, chef and co-owner of Eleven Madison Park, which came in a fourth in the list and The NoMad in New York City, which placed 89th.
3623
Wales' Hannah Bluck, 18,  has had her promising career halted after suffering a rare condition .
A scan of Bluck's shin bone, which has left doctors baffled by the rare condition .
3624
It affects lithium batteries more where the phone may be fully charged but is left on charging or if phone is used whilst charging may lead to lithium batteries overheating.
3625
This picture shows the dramatic moment a 'hero' police officer smashed a car window to save a  baby trapped in the vehicle on one of the hottest days of the year.
3626
According to reports, Keshri collided with a team-mate as they both attempted to take a catch in a senior one-day match in Kolkata (formerly Calcutter) on Friday, and though he regained consciousness afterwards, he died in hospital on Monday.
'May God give strength to Ankit's family and friends to cope with this loss #RIP'
My deepest condolences goes out 2 Ankit kesri's family nd frnds.
3627
The disease was recently highlighted after Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills star Yolanda Foster contracted it, who reveled she has lost the ability to read, write or even watch TV because of it.
3628
Naomi Campbell, Robert Pattinson and Peter Andre have all cut their chat time short - especially when, like with Mr Downey Jr, the conversation has turned to their private lives.
3629
The 35-year-old, who finished third 12 months ago but went on to miss the cut at Augusta, told a pre-tournament press conference: 'I think that every single week it's a new story and some weeks you play terrible and then the next week you play amazing.
3630
The ceremony went ahead at St Edmund Hall in the city.
Eighty guests fled the fire at the 119-bedroom hotel, which featured in TV’s Inspector Morse.
No one was hurt.
3631
Felicity Jones, who recently garnered an Oscar nomination for her role in 'The Theory of Everything' is the only confirmed cast member for the film, which will shoot in London this summer for a December 2016 release.
3632
Bafetimbi Gomis has been stepping up his recovery from a hamstring injury as the Swansea City striker returned to France in a bid to get back playing as soon as possible.
3633
Crash:
The small plane crash-landed between a wildlife fence and a  guardrail, just feet away from passing cars, Nordwest-Zeitung reports.
3634
The 28-year-old, who a doctor described as 'one of the most dangerous people' he had ever encountered, may use the botched case of self-mutilation as evidence he is mentally unstable .
3635
England suffered an injury scare at the start of their practice 'match' here in St Kitts when Stuart Broad dramatically slipped in his delivery stride and was left clutching his ankle on the floor.
3636
In one scenario, a customer sitting on a nearby table, not involved in the experiment, even intervenes.
Visibly shocked by the comments, the women recognise the dialogue as their own notes
3637
Miss Lawrence was last seen on March 18, 2009.
A 59-year-old father-of-two from the York area is arrested on suspicion of murdering Miss Lawrence and released on bail the next day .
3638
It found that sons and brothers of convicted sex offenders were four to five times more likely to be convicted of sex crimes than men in the general population.
3639
Mrs Mayhew (pictured with her husband, left, and the family, right) was at work at the time of the accident, began to get a strange feeling she urgently needed to see Mr Mayhew .
3640
Thailand's Kiradech Aphibarnrat produced a brilliant finish to claim his second European Tour title and break Chinese hearts in the inaugural Shenzhen International on Sunday.
3641
Tilting its head back, the primate then begins gulping down the liquid – remarkably spilling very little, although some water is visible dripping down its face.
3642
Frances has previously holidayed in the area with the 54-year-old broadcaster - they headed to the island together after he was first pictured with his reported girlfriend Phillipa Sage.
3643
The Spanish giants are in France ahead of their crucial Champions League quarter-final tie against Paris Saint-Germain, and Pique took some time out to wax lyrical about his team-mates.
3644
Shocking footage has emerged of the moment a man stabbed a bouncer outside a Melbourne nightclub just before the Easter long weekend.
3645
Her husband Nicholas prefers the Greek name Spyridon, after his own father.
he thinks he can see through the belly,' says Kseniya.
Mystery child:
3646
More than 25 women have been airlifted from Royal Navy ships because of pregnancy, including at least one woman from HMS Illustrious (above), which was nicknamed 'HMS Lusty' by the crew before it was decommissioned last year .
3647
Sergeant Greg Paul says the search is focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
Sergeant Greg Paul said the search was focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
3648
Secret weapon: Tsarnaev's lead defense attorney, Judy Clarke, specializes in death penalty cases and has spared several of her notorious killer clients from execution by humanizing them to the jury.
3649
Ann and her friend, Eduardo Juan, found the couple at around 4pm on Sunday at the couple's house in Xalo, near Benidorm on the Costa Blanca.
3650
Sussex-born Miss Sears, who is the daughter of former Lawn Tennis Association head of women's tennis Nigel Sears, met Murray at the US Open in 2005 .
3651
Arsenal winger Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Chelsea defender Gary Cahill pitted themselves against  Jack Nowell of Exeter Chiefs and Bath's George Ford at England Rugby's training centre in Pennyhill Park, Bagshot.
3652
Their 2-0 victory over Swansea made it three Premier League wins in a row for the first time since 2000, lifting Nigel Pearson’s side to 17th and ending their five-month spell at the bottom.
3653
Despite tens of thousands signing the petition to allow Mr Clark to stay in his own home, Brent Council said they will not increase their funding for a live-in carer.
3654
Mr Knott was said to be fighting plans to build a gipsy camp in a paddock (outlined in red) close to their 300-year-old cottage - the second traveller site proposed close to their home in two years .
3655
Sabrina's mother, Vikki Morrison, said her daughter was known to make up stories, so when sheriff's deputies told her the rape kit had shown no evidence of a rape, she believed them.
3656
It should be noted that a very thorough and detailed story published by ESPN in 2013 said that after his arrest for disorderly conduct back in 2012 and while still at college, Manziel did seek help for an alcohol problem, seeing an counselor for six or seven weeks.
3657
Using a small knife, he carefully cuts the strawberry into little triangles, before using minute tongs to place some of the strawberry triangles on to one half of the bread circle.
3658
The dolls are newly produced but modelled on the Original Barbie Doll that was first released at the New York Toy Fair in 1959.
Fifties fashion:
3659
Pippa Middleton is said to have been buying up the mull-cloth nappies in Geneva .
At £4 each, the mull-cloth nappies are not cheap and they are yet to really catch on in the UK.
3660
In the aftermath of the 3-2 extra-time win, Meekings admitted he was fortunate not to have conceded a penalty and been red-carded.
3661
Talks got to such an advanced stage that Hazard’s agent discussed the move with Wenger in the Arsenal manager’s house, but the Frenchman ultimately ruled he could not compete financially with Chelsea, who landed this season’s standout player for £32million.
3662
Later that afternoon, Watson crashed the Lamborghini Gallardo he was driving , killing Terry who was the operations manager at the Richard Petty Driving Experience at Walt Disney World.
3663
Former Hewlett Packard head  and maybe Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina is attributing the years-long drought in California to 'liberal environmentalists,' whom she says brought on the state's water shortage with their policies.
3664
One of their plans included travelling to London in January to carry out an attack on a man that flirted with Levato in Ibiza, the investigating judge Giuseppe Gennari said.
3665
'Last year was awful for him but in fairness he kept his head down worked hard and come through that tough period,' reflected Rooney.
3666
Mr Cameron set out an ambition that three in five new jobs should be created outside London and the South East to prevent a ‘reckless’ economy booming in the capital.
3667
Patties Foods said no hepatitis A virus or E.coli were detected in any sample of its recalled and non-recalled Nanna's Mixed Berries 1kg product during its own testing.
3668
President Barack Obama (above with Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller) became the first president to visit Jamaica since President Ronald Reagan in 1982on Thursday .
3669
Tugce Taskin, 26, was killed after the luxury car swerved across a highway in the north-western Turkish city of Istanbul and hit another car coming the other way.
3670
It isn't unheard of for game show contestants to give embarassingly incorrect answers when under the pressure to buzz first, but Tom's answer must have left things feeling slightly awkward in the TV studio .
3671
The child, Corinne Gump, and her grandparents were killed in a massive house fire in the early hours of Monday, just hours before Robert Seman, Jr., 46, was to go on trial for allegedly sexually abusing the girl over several years.
3672
Charlie Hebdo’s satirical attacks on Islam drove two brothers, Cherif and Said Kouachi (pictured) to mount a deadly attack on its office in Paris .
3673
No wonder James Freedman’s super-nimble hands are insured for a huge sum — for the fingers he uses to steal wallets are the tools of his trade.
3674
The man, described in the police appeal as 6ft3in and about 35-years-old, was found in Gniezno, in February, claiming that he has no memory of who he is or where he is from .
3675
Judge Guido Raimondi (above), of the European Court of Human Rights, said: 'The court considers that this complaint is manifestly ill-founded and must be rejected'
3676
Enchanted Forest, the mother-of-one's second release, reached number one on the UK Amazon book chart at the start of April, while the two books took first and second place on Amazon’s bestsellers list for the US .
3677
After the breeding program has been concluded, the crocodiles will be released into the wild, where they could grow to be up to three metres long.
3678
Currently out of work after leaving his position at Queens Park Rangers, the former Tottenham boss was at the Emirates as a spectator on April 4 when some fans turned against him.
3679
Jordan Spieth admitted he would probably sleep in the green jacket after claiming his first major title in record-breaking fashion in the 79th Masters.
3680
Roland Gainer (above), a college student, started a GoFundMe page for Broskey after meeting him which has almost reached its $95,000 goal .
3681
In November last year the house of wax in Berlin unveiled a figure of 22-year-old Selena Gomez, however fans were shocked when the museum appeared to have aged her by ten years.
3682
Ms Scott was excitedly preparing the last minute details for her wedding and her honeymoon to Tahiti with her partner of five years Aaron Leeson-Woolley, when she disappeared from her workplace at Leeton High School on Easter Sunday.
3683
The Prime Minister is said to splash almond milk on his breakfast cereal and in his tea.
Last year, Sainsbury’s reported its sales were up by 181 per cent year-on-year.
3684
Li-ion batteries are vulnerable to a condition known as thermal runaway, which occurs when the rate of heat generation is greater than the rate of heat lost.
3685
Some of the attractions featured in these 100-year-old photos are now Unesco World Heritage Sites, including the Forbidden City, Summer Palace and Temple of Heaven.
3686
Staff attorneys at the U.S. Justice Department's antitrust division are nearing a recommendation to block Comcast Corps. $45.2 billion proposal to merge with Time Warner Cable Inc. (stock image)
3687
Newly released police reports show Schweich felt so abandoned by GOP supporters that he told an aide on February 26, the day of his death, that he would have to either 'run as an independent or he needed to kill himself.'
3688
The pickup truck driven by Aleksandr Glushko is pictured here after he crashed it in Fairbanks, Alaska, police said the 21-year-old  drove a stolen forklift more than three miles while intoxicated to retrieve it .
3689
Andrew Hennells, pictured, posted a message on Facebook admitting his plans to rob a Tesco supermarket 15 minutes before holding up staff .
3690
Janek Zylinski, the aristocratic son of Polish war hero who fought the Nazis in 1939, posted the challenge online after declaring that he had 'had enough' of the Ukip leader.
3691
Researchers found that heart patients who expressed gratitude for the positive things in their life had improved mental, and ultimately physical, health.
3692
Michelle Schwab, who has three sons and a degree in therapeutic childcare, has been charged with child endangerment after  she allegedly dangled her child over the 10-foot-deep enclosure in Cleveland Metroparks Zoo before he slipped and fell.
3693
The Nordic country decided to tighten up its laws amid reports of animal sex shows, clubs and even animal brothels frequented by tourists taking advantage of its lax regulations.
3694
Reanne Evans saw her 10-year reign as women's world snooker champion surprisingly ended on Tuesday.
But it is her win over Evans which really stands out.
3695
The influential 33-year-old midfielder Pienaar has been dogged by groin and knee injuries this season limiting him to just 11 appearances.
3696
Chinese media reported  that the baby boy had been 'catapulted' from his mother's womb (left) when the truck ran over her, ending up ten feet away from her.
3697
Witnesses took Mr Sithole in the back of a car to a nearby medical centre but found it was closed because the foreign-born duty doctor had failed to turn up for his shift because he feared being attacked by the xenophobic hordes rampaging through the township .
3698
Ralph Vaughan Williams's Lark Ascending is the nation's favourite piece of classic music .
5. Beethoven - Piano Concerto No. 5 ('Emperor')
3699
At a press conference in Russia today, Kovtun asserted his innocence and blamed Mr Litvinenko for his own death - saying he was carrying around polonium rather than being given it by Kovtun and Lugovoi, as has been previously claimed.
3700
She died aged 91 .
'I thought she was a classic broad.'
 Willis also designed neon signs for the Moulin Rouge casino and Blue Angel motel .
3701
Eventually the suspect surrendered and lay on the ground with his hands outstretched as backup arrived, allowing Kidder's partner to handcuff him.
3702
Kolo Toure has warned Raheem Sterling that leaving Liverpool could see him end up on the scrapheap at a big club, similar to the way that Jack Rodwell and Scott Sinclair did at Manchester City.
3703
It has a five pointed star on top of it, which was the emblem of White Star Line - the company that owned the Titanic .
The current owner acquired it in 2001.
3704
Modern humans who regularly cooked their food could have then channeled this extra energy into growing their population and searching longer for food during lean periods.
3705
The Block’s up market South Yarra apartments are set to go under the hammer later this month with listing agents claiming the lavish apartments are worth between $1.3 million and $1.5 million.
3706
He did birdie the par-five second, but then came five more dropped shots to reach the turn in 41, and the youngster finished the day on 79, 13 over par in all and facing the truth that his big weekend was already over.
3707
The two schools hit in this operation were Pearland High School and Dawson High School.
Pearland High School, in Pearland, Texas, south of Houston, has about 3,600 students .
3708
Shannon Carter, 21 (pictured) has been jailed for three-and-a-half years for attacking Amelia Gledhill, 20, (pictured right) with a stiletto during a night out.
3709
Spieth finished joint second with Sweden's Jonas Blixt and comes into this year's event having won his second PGA Tour title in the Valspar Championship and finishing second in his next two tournaments.
3710
Solar flux ropes are common structures in the solar corona, and they are thought to be the main cause of several types of solar weather – including solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs), pictured .
3711
The box formed the inspiration for Poundland, and a few years later, he convinced a shopping centre in Burton-on-Trent to open a store, where he sold £13,000 of stock on the first day.
3712
Shadow chancellor Ed Balls, pictured giving a speech in Glasgow today, has repeatedly refused to rule out using the point at which the higher income tax rate kicks in to raise money to balance the books .
3713
Billy Mitchell, now seven, was born with Apert syndrome, a rare condition which left him with malformations of the skull, face, hands and feet.
3714
David Raven peels away after scoring the winner for Inverness against Celtic in the Scottish Cup semi-final .
But overall Scottish football is in a bad way right now.
3715
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, who hopes to hold the balance of power after May 7, said the idea of more than two parties forming a government is not 'going to work'.
3716
Shown on the left is TV star James Corden at his current weight, 210lbs (95kg), and on the right he is seen after digitally losing 60lbs (27kg)
3717
The Duchess – whose son, Prince George, was also around a week late - herself told well-wishers earlier this year that the new little prince or princess was due 'mid to late April'.
3718
Next year marks the 20th anniversary of Kelly-Anne's death, but Mrs Bates said even with the passage of time, she and her husband Tommy, 66, are unable to read the post-mortem report which details the injuries their daughter endured.
3719
Confusion over Ukip’s immigration policy grew yesterday after Nigel Farage called for the number of arrivals into Britain to be limited at 50,000 a year.
3720
Formerly Grade II-listed Cledford Hall, which dates back to 1822, was severely damaged by fire three years ago and its listing was cancelled.
3721
Ambulance bosses are routinely making a 21,500-mile round trip to Australia to hire paramedics on £4,500 ‘golden hello’ payments because it is far cheaper than training them in Britain.
3722
Carlos Tevez has rocked Juventus by revealing that he wants to leave the club and return to Argentina at the end of the season.
3723
UEFA have sensationally charged Pep Guardiola for wearing a t-shirt demanding justice for a journalist who died at last summer’s World Cup.
3724
Fearful: Capitol Hill workers wait as Capitol Police secure a hallway in the Cannon House Office Building after a suspicious powder was discovered at the Cannon House office building office of Rep. Mike Doyle .
3725
Members of the migrant worker community in Jakarta have also showed their support for the condemned by holding a candlelight vigil for Filipina death row prisoner, Mary Jane Veloso who is set to be executed with the Australians and five others.
3726
Egyptian officials left an African football event early after they were offended by a belly dancing performance by Dina Talaat (above)
3727
The former Atletico Madrid striker moved to Old Trafford on a season-long loan  last summer but has struggled to hit the heights he achieved before suffering a serious knee injury.
3728
Jonathan Leblanc, the company’s top developer, said that passwords as they are now were not working and that users need to ‘harden it with something physical behind it’ instead of typing it into a given computer field .
3729
Fiore were stunned in the 90th minute when Verona substitute Mounir Obbadi scored from close range after Alessandro Diamanti had missed a second-half penalty for the home side.
3730
Despite not wanting to be seen as a 'mummy' replacement, Christine has said that she has a very hands-on role when it comes to looking after Frank's two children, given that he can be away a lot for football games .
3731
His tenant Lee-Anna Shiers, 20, her partner Liam Timbrell, 23, their baby Charlie, 15 months, Miss Shiers’s nephew Bailey, four, and niece Skye, two, were trapped and perished in the first-floor flat owned by Liptrot.
3732
SBS journalist Scott McIntyre was fired on Sunday over his tweets which called Anzac day 'the cultification of an imperialist invasion' and accused Australian Diggers of committing war crimes which included 'widespread rape and theft.'
3733
Now researchers in the US and Italy say they have evidence that DNA-like fragments may have come with 'instructions' that guided their growth into complex life forms 4 billion years ago .
3734
'But that was the same before we played the Manchester United game; Arsenal was a game that we wanted to ensure that we got at least a point from and that will be the case at the weekend.'
3735
Rosberg will start Sunday's race behind team-mate Lewis Hamilton after he missed out on pole by just 0.042secs in Shanghai.
3736
Aberdeen striker Adam Rooney does not want to see Celtic win the league on their patch on May 11 .
‘I think Barry Robson also compared me to Ally McCoist and he got stick for that.
3737
The wild owl, which weighs around 6lbs, spends an average of one minute perched on the head of innocent bystanders, before flying off looking for the next perch.
3738
Porto (4-3-3): Fabiano 4, Reyes 4 (Ricardo 33, 6), Maicon 5, Marcano 4.5, Martins Indi 5, Herrera 5, Casemiro 4.5, Torres 5, Quaresma 5 (Neves 46, 6), Martinez 5, Brahimi 5 (Evandro 67, 6)
3739
Since 2011, the number of average daily number of visitors has far exceeded the daily limit of 2,500 agreed to by Peru and UNESCO.
3740
As Gasol walked away the delighted boy clutched his Grizzlies jacket to his chest as the biggest smile spread across his face.
The young child is a devoted Grizzlies fan and popular with the players.
3741
Three soldiers were disciplined with reprimands last year and forced to pay back the $200 in military fuel that was used for the shoot, which included the British models riding in tanks and firing a range of weapons.
3742
The CEO of the Italian eyewear company that makes Ray-Bans said that his company is working with Google on two new versions of its Google Glass project.
3743
The boy, who is a member of the notorious Wood Green Gang, pleaded guilty to stabbing 53-year-old Christopher Barry twice in the chest outside his home in Edmonton, north London, on December 14 last year.
3744
He was locked up for at least 38 years in July last year for the attack on Mr Eren, the murder of crime boss Zafer Eren, and a botched attempt to kill his own getaway driver Samuel Zerei, 22.
3745
Instead STF hardens upon impact at any temperature, providing protection from penetration by high-speed projectiles and additionally dispersing energy over a larger area.
3746
Both boys appear to be older than 16-years-old.
The boy has been named as Abu al-Hassan al-Shami, a Syrian fighter who appears to be no older than 14 years old.
Australian fighter Jake Bilardi, 18, from Melbourne, detonated a van filled with barrels of explosives near Iraqi armed forces in Ramadi last month.
3747
Tianwen Chen, 65, and his wife Gairen Guo, 60, found their first child in a box on the roadside and gradually took  more and more disabled children into their two-bedroom home in rural Shanxi province, central China.
3748
Though his website, AlmostBlack.com, shows side-by-side qualifications and pictures of Chokal-Ingam as an Indian-American man (left) and a black man (right), he doesn't specify if he went through the same application process as an Inidan-American man as he did a black man .
3749
Louis van Gaal says Manchester United can still win the Barclays Premier League, even though his side sit eight points behind leaders Chelsea having played a game more going into the run-in.
3750
He looked solid, if short of fitness.
Luke Shaw (right) returns to the Manchester United first-team against Chelsea but looks to lack match fitness .
3751
Examinations: The studies are part of the Pentagon's effort to open all military combat positions to women or provide reasons why any jobs should remain closed .
3752
The huge unexpected Cold Spot region, shown, contains about 20 per cent less matter than other regions of the universe, and about 10,000 less galaxies.
3753
‘It’s part of what being a professional rugby player is.
‘There are times I’ve had bad games at Gloucester or injuries or setbacks or come across weaknesses in my game.
3754
Tom Lineham scored two interception tries in an eye-catching hat-trick as Hull FC beat Widnes 22-8 to make it back-to-back wins for the first time since last June.
3755
The 71-year-old real estate scion is awaiting extradition to face murder charges in California appeared in New Orleans accused of illegal gun possession.
3756
The Oxford Women's Boat Race crew pose on the tideway ahead of the historic Newton Women's Boat Race .
Cambridge leads the men's series, 81-78, but has lost the last two races.
3757
Shinto Kanamara Matsuri started as a small tradition but has grown into a popular a tourist attraction, with participants praying to a god of fertility, child birth and protection from sexually transmitted infections.
3758
A family has been awarded $150 million by a jury after a four-year-old boy was killed when Jeep Grand Cherokee exploded into flames three years ago.
3759
At the helm of the NYPD from 1934-45 was Lewis Valentine (pictured), a stalwart of the force for more than 30 years who had a reputation for brutality .
3760
After sealing the deal with a kiss and a cuddle, Jordan rejoins the pack of runners and carries on with the race .
Claire Harris wrote: ‘Congratulations!
3761
Samantha Harris modelled a stand-out midi skirt and jacket in rainbow mirrored heart-shaped embellishments, which were teamed with Sophia Webster heels and colourful dreadlocks.
3762
British and Norwegian vets have called the EU directives on organic fish treatment 'scientifically illiterate', saying that the use of homeopathy could lead to 'serious animal health and welfare detriment'
3763
Letizia poses for photos along with Grupo Zeta's president Antonio Mosbah (right) and Ms Hayek .
Spain's got talent: Ms Hayek with Inma Shara, Queen Letizia, Maria Neira and Mr Mosbah .
3764
It's designed to teach the immune system to recognise compounds found in prostate cancer cells and is being given to men who have already been treated for the cancer.
3765
In total, six tigers, a bear, a lion, a cougar, a black leopard and a liger (part lion, part tiger) were taken from Kenny Hetrick's Stony Ridge farm after it was found he did not have the correct permit and cages were 'unsafe'.
3766
Billionaire Phones4U founder John Caudwell has revealed that his £10million mansion is 'being haunted' by the 'ghost' of a child killed in the English Civil War.
3767
Pennsylvania state representative Kevin Boyle, left, claims that he was covered in soda by Tonya Stack, right, wife of Lieutenant Governor Mike Stack, and a political opponent .
3768
Tim Ward and his wife of 38 years, Brandy, were at home in Oso, Washington, on March 22, 2014, when tons of debris, soil and rock came crashing down from upland.
3769
Earlier this year it emerged the report, expected to criticise dozen of senior figures involved in the 2003 conflict, had been pushed back until after the election because it was too politically sensitive to publish so close to a national poll.
3770
Under Steve McClaren he started in the disastrous double header of a 0-0 home draw with Macedonia followed by a 2-0 defeat in Croatia — the results that effectively cost England’s place at the 2008 European Championship.
3771
Property developer Andreas Christopheros, 29, was left fighting for his life when corrosive liquid was thrown in his face outside his home in Truro, Cornwall.
3772
Gareth Bale has been urged to ignore a return to the Premier League and persevere at Real Madrid by former Wales manager Mark Hughes.
3773
Inserting needles or vibrating tuning fork on these trigger points supposedly restores the flow of energy, improving fine lines and circulation, leading to a clearer, rejuvenated complexion.
3774
Family and friends of the three dead Council Rock High School South students showed up at court wearing identical shirts and carrying signs and photos in honor of their loved ones.
3775
Members Rick Parfitt (pictured left) and Francis Rossi (right) Katherine Jenkins will be West End star Elaine Paige, boy band Blue, R&B singer Jamelia, pop star Pixie Lott, jazz vocalist Gregory Porter and tenor Alfie Boe .
3776
Mr Gould later received a pair of letters saying that he was banned from all 1,200 Sainsbury's stores across the country, and had to pay £150 in compensation.
3777
Richardson was caught and arrested on March 19 after CCTV operators were alerted to her suspicious behaviour as they spotted her approaching people for cash.
3778
Rangers boss Stuart McCall says he is already working on a dossier of signing targets for next season - even though he may not be around to parade them.
3779
Meatballs and Malm beds: Ikea is as famous for its meatballs as its cheap self-assembly furniture and the company sells one billion of its regular meatballs every year .
3780
Although Stewart hasn't set an official exit date, Comedy Central announced last month that comedian and The Daily Show correspondent Trevor Noah, left, would be taking over .
3781
British former car mechanic Hamayun Tariq -  who joined the Islamic State as an explosives expert and sniper - has shared chilling images of his new high-tech bomb-making factory in Syria .
3782
Children's toys could act as a reservoir for bacteria and bring germs into hospitals, scientists at Vanderbilt University in Tennessee, have warned .
3783
Stoke forward Jonathan Walters is expected to shake off a calf knock in time to be available for Saturday's contest and defender Marc Muniesa is set to return to the matchday squad after missing five games because of a hamstring problem.
3784
Dagenham midfielder Joss Labadie (in yellow) has been banned for six months for biting Ronnie Henry (left) Labadie  appeared at an FA disciplinary hearing on Wednesday and denied any wrongdoing, but was hit by another lengthy ban.
3785
According to historian Andreas Eichmüller, of the 6,500 members of the SS who served in Auschwitz and survived the war, only 29 were convicted in West Germany and reunified Germany, while about 20 were convicted in East Germany.
3786
Today the Tory leader set out a seven point plan which he claims will help build more houses and making it easier for first-time buyers, claiming it will help a million people become homeowners over the next parliament.
3787
Sam Bennett has revealed the extent of the shocking injuries he sustained after the Bora-Argon 18 cyclist was involved in 50-rider pile-up in the final kilometre of the Scheldeprijs one day Classic.
3788
The London club lost to Toulon in the final, but they have been the standard-bearers for English rugby in the last two seasons and will believe they can go to Paris and beat Racing, who can be wildly inconsistent.
3789
A flaming cannonball was launched from this wooden trebuchet, which stands 60ft high and weighs 22 tonnes, during a demonstration to show how the machine was used to hurl huge projectiles to breach the castle walls .
3790
Ted (right in his Air Force uniform) said he was thinking suicidal thoughts because he was struggling to deal with the loss of his wife Karen, (left with Ted) who passed away six months ago .
3791
Exeter City Council Leader Pete Edwards said there were no areas suitable for the brown Monopoly (board game pictured) spots, which are taken up in London by Old Kent Road and Whitechapel Road .
3792
The build-up for the blockbuster fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao in Las Vegas on May 2 steps up a gear on Tuesday night when the American holds an open workout for the media.
3793
Mr Key, Mr Abbott, Prince Charles and Prince Harry will attend an Anzac breakfast after the dawn service before heading to the Australian service at Lone Pine and the New Zealand service at Chunuk Bair.
3794
Ian Bell says he never expected England to win the series in the West Indies without a struggle .
England have the pressure because they are looking for the victory.'
3795
In the first half of the season, Bale suffered a buttock muscle injury while on international duty with Wales, and he missed La Liga matches against Levante (5-0 win), Barcelona (3-1 win), Granada (4-0 win) and a 3-0 Champions League victory against Liverpool.
3796
Depending on the configuration of the interior, the 525 will hold 16 or 20 passengers along with the two flight crew with what the builders say is best in class passenger cabin height (137cm) and floor area (8.2 square metres).
3797
The aluminum-ion battery consists of two electrodes - a negatively charged anode made of aluminum and a positively charged graphite cathode along with an ionic liquid electrolyte.
3798
Last year Mr Miliband described himself as a 'Jewish atheist', but all party leaders are now trying to reach religious groups in the scramble to win votes.
3799
Bueno played for Derby on loan five years ago, but with just five goals in 29 games he looked anything like Champions League material.
3800
Amanda was a fitness lover and a month before her death had run a full marathon with her brother, who said they crossed the finish line hand-in-hand.
3801
Left his post: Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl walked away from the army and was captured by the Taliban in June of 2009 .
The thing is, we never left him (Bergdahl) behind.
3802
We have scored more than most this season and I won’t change.
Insisting he has no concerns despite Saturday’s loss, Stubbs said: ‘When you play like that, more often than not you are going to win games of football.
3803
He added: 'Like I said, this Algieri fight, if it happens, it's making me a lot of money; money that Kell Brook's not seen.
He's not a big name in the UK.'
3804
The detective constable, who is suspended from duty, was based at Tooting police station in Wandsworth, South West London, pictured.
3805
LIVERPOOL (4-3-3): Mignolet 7; Johnson 6, Lovren 5, Can 6.5, Moreno 6; Henderson 7, Allen 6.5, Lucas 7; Ibe 6 (Borini 58, 6), Coutinho 7.5 , Sterling 7 (Lambert 89).
3806
Floral perfumes can take years off a woman, as long as the smell is subtle.
Perfumes with a bright, breezy, citrus scent evoke images of health, youth and the outdoors .
3807
'We've got different types of players, you look through QPR's side and they've got a lot of players who are men - with a lot of experience in there,' he said.
3808
Werder Bremen edged past bottom club Hamburg SV 1-0 courtesy of an 84th-minute penalty by Franco Di Santo that kept them in the running for a Europa League spot.
3809
Death threats:
Social media:
Downton Abbey star Lily James (right) quit Twitter after being trolled, while Matt Lucas (left) also left the site .
3810
Chloe Owens, 27, from Swanley (left, with Lola and right with Lola and husband David) came up with the idea for Bump 2 Breast when she was pregnant .
3811
Loving life:
 Owners Margaret and Patrick Evans say Baylie is 'a different dog' since losing a stone and a half on a new doggy diet of raw food.
3812
Her death has been ruled an accidental drowning.
Last seen: Foster, an aspiring singer, was last seen on CCTV footage leaving an Ybor City bar on February 12 .
3813
A young Iranian woman stands in front of an old piece of political graffiti reading 'Down with USA' A young man is seen taking part in parkour, where contestants have to find unorthodox ways of moving around the city .
3814
President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, paid more than $93,000 in federal taxes last year on an adjusted gross income of more than $477,000, according to tax returns released Friday by the White House.
3815
Chevrolet spokesman Michael Albano confirmed to Daily Mail Online that the standard issue Chevrolet Express Police Transport Van has bolts that are built into the door and don't stick out.
3816
Ronny Deila has admitted Celtic will enter the Champions League qualifiers minus defender Jason Denayer.
We will look for a central defender anyway, one maybe two.’
3817
Nearly a third of people aged 16-to-34 have deleted their facebook accounts because they no longer see it as ‘cool’ Around the same proportion use Snapchat, a social media platform which automatically deletes messages shortly after they are sent.
3818
I was a captain during my own playing career - it's a special honour.'
Pye is captain of Norton Lindsey and got a special message from Sherwood about being a captain .
3819
Francis Saili has signed a two-year deal to join Munster and will link up with them later this year .
3820
From the Humphrey Bogart years, before he died from cancer in 1957, was his black granite games table and a pair of silver candelabras from the couple's marital home in Los Angeles.
3821
While the fate of many of its customers is uncertain, Terminal Bar itself closed in 1982 after Nadelman's father-in-law and bar owner Murray Goldman decided that $125,000 a year rent was too expensive.
3822
Mouldy food and dirty floor:
East Yorkshire restaurant: The company was fined £8,500, plus costs of £1,392 and a victim surcharge of £120.
3823
Nottingham Forest (4-1-4-1): Darlow 6.5; Mancienne 6.5, Wilson 6, Lascelles 6.5, Lichaj 7; Gardner 6; Burke 7 (Walker, 76), Lansbury 5.5, Osborn 5 (Paterson, 57, 6), Antonio 5.5 (Blackstock, 83); Akpom 6 .
3824
The punch:
By midnight, the man who was caught on video punching the toddler, 23-year-old Justin Whittington, was in police custody.
3825
The 29-year-old has been announced as the face (and body) of Ann Summers' swimwear and beachwear campaign, Hotel Summers.
As well as the swimwear
3826
Iconic UK brand Topshop and Topman is set to open second Sydney store in Westfield Miranda .
British label has asked Cheyenne Tozzi and Nic Westaway to host in the launch celebrations .
3827
Vigil:
Family members have said he may have run from Saturday's traffic stop because he feared going back to jail over more back child support.
3828
During his 10km race Mr Kobold ran past landmarks such as the imposing Arch of Triumph and statues of late North Korean leaders Kim il Sung and Kim Jong il.
3829
Labor senator Penny Wong tweeted this picture of daughters Alexandra and Hannah after her partner Sophie Allouache gave birth to their second child on Good Friday in Adelaide .
3830
New Zealand Warriors managing director Jim Doyle said of Tomkins: 'He came here excited about testing himself in the NRL and also experiencing living in a new country but, in the end, Sam has found it too much of a challenge being away from home.
3831
Greg Rusedski has supported Aljaz Bedene's bid to overturn an International Tennis Federation ruling and become eligible to represent Great Britain in the Davis Cup.
3832
A Italian naval officer stands in front of rescued migrants on board the Italian Navy vessel Bettica as they arrive in the Sicilian harbour of Augusta after being the latest group to be rescued from the Mediterranean .
3833
Rebecca Grant tried to head-butt a deputy, scratched the police car's with her teeth, bit the upholstery and' threatened to kill the deputies'
3834
At his heaviest, he weighed 34st and was forced to order specialist XXXXXL clothes on the internet - the result of topping up his takeaway-heavy diet with six bags of crisps and two bottles of full-fat Coca-Cola a day.
3835
The six, whom authorities described as friends who met secretly to plan their travels, are accused of conspiracy to provide material support and attempting to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization.
3836
Hibernian claimed their first Edinburgh derby victory of the season as goals from Jason Cummings and Farid El Alagui sealed a 2-0 win over Hearts and allowed them to collect a valuable three points in the push for second place in the Championship.
3837
Anyone can now walk in and donate .
Doctors hope to be able to drill nasal passages in Eli's skull which will allow him to breathe when he is older.
3838
Scroll down for video .
The Omura's is usually found in Indonesian waters, the Philippines and the Sea of Japan .
3839
Motorola's Gold version has an 18mm stainless steel band and costs £50 more, at £249.99 - which is £50 cheaper than Apple's cheapest Sport model.
3840
Single woman Candice Ingram (pictured right) tells Daily Mail Australia that she was not invited to a friend's birthday dinner because she would 'ruin table numbers'
3841
Barcelona B winger Moha El Ouriachi is set to sign for Stoke City, according to the player's agent .
3842
But the thick lead paint has been stripped from doors and brick walls, exposing traditional brickwork and original iron work features and the exercise yard, once open to the elements, has been converted into a glass covered indoor lounge space.
3843
Money will not play a major part in Pep Guardiola's contract discussions with Bayern Munich, according to board member Jan-Christian Dreesen.
3844
A man awaiting sentencing for murder escaped from a jail in eastern Illinois Wednesday after beating a guard into unconsciousness, taking his keys and uniform and speeding off in his SUV.
3845
That Cantlow disputes favouritism for Monday's race is largely due to the presence of McCoy on his back.
I hope it dries up a bit, it is soft to heavy which wouldn’t help.
3846
The Melbourne man's father, Dada Jama, confirmed his death to SBS Radio while tributes to the young man flooded social media.
Scroll down for video .
3847
In June 2014, after months of tests, her doctor diagnosed her with Crohn's disease, a long-term condition that causes inflammation of the lining of the digestive system.
3848
An artist has been jailed after pouring food dye into the Strokkur Geysir natural hot spring in Iceland, causing its the water to turn bright pink .
3849
Most 25-year-old's would prefer to receive clothing or some of the latest DVD's and video games but not Daley Blind, who was given a large self-portrait of himself and former Holland international father Danny.
3850
Mike Coupe, chief executive of Sainsbury's, has been sentenced to two years in an Egyptian jail after a former business partner of the British supermarket claimed Mr Coupe tried to seize money from him .
3851
Wayne Kyle described the movie, American Sniper, as an absolute disgrace for the way in which it portrayed his other son, Iraq veteran Jeff Kyle (pictured), as 'cowardly'
3852
People with RBD move around during the rapid eye movement period of sleep, when most dreaming occurs but the body's muscles are usually paralysed by the brain stem.
3853
Ashley Young is finally feeling like a senior member of the Manchester United squad under Louis van Gaal .
You have got to have good team spirit and we have got that here.
3854
Manchester United assistant manager Giggs, left, allegedly told his brother that the affair with his wife Natasha, right, was only ever 'about sex' Ryan, left, and Rhodri Giggs as children.
3855
An avid angler, Mr Muggeridge couldn't believe his luck when a huge four metre tiger shark took a bite of his line, and he spent the next three hours trying to bring it to shore.
3856
Arsenal last wore yellow in the 1980 FA Cup final where they narrowly lost to London rivals West Ham United, but a year earlier donned the same colours as they got the better of Manchester United in a five-goal thriller at the home of English football.
3857
A collection of pictures of Christina O'Gorman posing for her father, electrical engineer and photographer Mervyn O'Gorman, back in 1913 have been revealed as some of the earliest colour photographs ever taken .
3858
'Commands respect even from #space: we just flew over typhoon #Maysak,' Esa astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti said in a tweet.
3859
On Thursday evening, thunderstorms were predicted to take place in a number of states, including in parts of South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Texas, the Weather Channel reported.
3860
Reading took the lead with only four minutes gone when Pavel Pogrebnyak got a touch to Garath McCleary's nod-down to divert the ball past Cardiff goalkeeper David Marshall.
3861
Jose Mourinho reignited talk of a campaign against Cheslea after saying the incident will be forgotten because it is a Manchester United player .
3862
There have been growing calls from Conservative MPs for Mr Johnson to be ‘weaponised’ as the party seeks to break away from Labour.
It’s boring.
3863
Just days after scoring the winner for Sunderland in the Tyne/Wear derby, the striker received a somewhat mixed reception when he was introduced to the crowd at a wrestling event in Newcastle.
3864
Hearts have confirmed that captain Danny Wilson will leave the club this summer after the defender activated a clause in his contract.
3865
As bookies named Ed Miliband the favourite to be the next prime minister, one business leader said: 'Every time Miliband is visible, he appears credible'
3866
The woman - who identified herself later as Josephine Witt - yelled 'End the ECB dictatorship!' before being bundled off by two heavyset guards, while a third threw himself in front of Mr Draghi.
3867
A new search was conducted on Sunday in the case of missing Chelsea Ellen Bruck, 22, who was last seen dressed as Batman villain Poison Ivy at a Halloween party on October 25 attended by around 800 people .
3868
There has been plenty happening since I came up here, going back to semi-final kick-off times, playing Hearts (in a semi-final) at Easter Road in the middle of Edinburgh, I just think sometimes Inverness get treated with contempt.’
3869
Around 90 Australians are understood to have travelled to the Middle East to join militant causes .
'It is illegal to fight in Syria for either side of the conflict.
3870
The new dinosaur, named Yi qi (shown above in the artists reconstruction), had unusual bristle-like feathers and bat-like wings that were covered in a membrane.
3871
Little Matilda Fitt - who played baby Julia Poldark in the BBC drama  - was born to 34-year-old Hannah Fitt nine weeks early in their home town of Barry, South Wales, weighing just 2lb 12oz.
3872
The No 1-seeded Djokovic closed to within one win of his fifth Key Biscayne title and will face Andy Murray .
He's 9-3 in Masters 1000 finals.
3873
The protest will take place outside Stamford Bridge at 3pm this Saturday ahead of the Blues' evening kick-off against Manchester United.
3874
The NFL is set to hire Sarah Thomas as its first permanent female official for regular season games, according to reports.
3875
SeaWorld has released an almost five-year-old video that shows an ex-trainer repeatedly using the N-word - following the trainer's release of a book criticizing the company's treatment of animals.
3876
The state's worst storms in a decade have ripped through Sydney and surrounding areas this week with four deaths in the Hunter region.
3877
But the couple insist they fell in love with the 'calm' of Ireland on a previous visit and just had to return.
-opened in May 2011 as a 5 star country house hotel .
3878
Harrell reportedly pulled out his gun and fired at 19-year-old Miss White (pictured with their daughter) after they started arguing over his 'infidelity' in the bedroom of their St Paul apartment at around 3.40am .
3879
Just three months after Silver himself was arrested on corruption charges, his son-in-law Marcello Trebitsch, 37, was accused of running a $7million Ponzi scheme.
3880
'We can fight until the end for all of our aims,' Benitez said.
Napoli's Manolo Gabbiadini (right) scores his side's fourth goal in the 4-1 win over Wolfsburg .
3881
With teachers banning packed lunches and erecting barbed wire and metal sheeting to prevent smuggling, the students' only option is to leave school grounds to eat everyday, the People's Daily Online reports.
3882
Despite being quickly pegged back, they powered ahead during the middle section to dominate the race, finishing in 17 minutes 34 seconds — winning by 19 seconds as Oxford’s women had before them.
3883
When it comes to lullabies, the classic Moon River, which Audrey Hepburn famously sang in Breakfast at Tiffany's (pictured), tops the chart for British parents .
Eurythmics' There Must be an Angel came second on the top ten list, followed by Vanilla Ice's (left) Ice Baby, while more current tunes from Pitbull, Ed Sheeran (right) and Sam Smith also made the cut .
3884
Mata was the two-goal hero during his side's 2-1 win against Liverpool in May with his sensational volley on the hour mark proving the highlight of the Anfield triumph.
3885
Pouting and playing with her mother's pearl necklace, Sweden's Princess Leonore looked distinctly out of sorts during a visit to the Vatican.
3886
The smiley toddler - who has lived at the Home of the Innocents nursing facility in Kentucky since she was three months old - was filmed as she perfectly lip-synced to Miley Cyrus' Wrecking Ball.
Touching on Nathaly's zest for life, her father concluded: 'I don't have words to explain.
3887
Manny Pacquiao says he has to fight Floyd Mayweather like it is the last of his life when he touches gloves with the undefeated American in the $300m bout on May 2.
3888
Ronaldo says he 'would pay out of his own pocket' to sign Lionel Messi to his United States football team .
Why not Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo why not?
3889
Since revelations about how she prefers the smell of her younger boy Alex, Amie Cox says she has been attacked on the SBS Insight website, but says he is a 'normal loving Mum' who treats her boys equally and older son William also thinks his brother Alex has 'a special smell'
3890
Miss Jones, 25, told Newport Crown Court that after she had left her baby in the care of her father for the first time on November 16 to go on an evening out with her friends she returned home and he said he had a difficult night with the child.
Jones, 45, of Cwmbran, denies murder.
Amelia was rushed to the Royal Gwent Hospital in Newport after her grandfather dialled emergency services .
3891
Robin Rinaldi (pictured) demanded an open marriage from her husband, Scott after he had a vasectomy .
As it gets steamier, her prose flushes a deep purple.
3892
It seems that scoring stunning volleys in Tyne-Wear derbies is not the limit of Sunderland striker Jermain Defoe's limits as he shows off his impressive keepy up skills with a tennis ball.
3893
Ulysses Beaudoin (left), 39, of Texas, is accusing of killing his 22-year-old son and namesake, Ulysses Nelson (right), when the young man tried to intercede on behalf of his mother during a domestic argument .
3894
McCall watched his side, which contained five English-qualified forwards in the starting pack, battle in vain before losing 13-9 to the Clermont on Saturday.
3895
Gang's all here: The new series will feature a host of favorites including Gonzo, bottom right, Fozzie Bear, center right, Animal, top center, and Rowlf the Dog, top left .
3896
But doubters have questioned how Jordan – who declined medical help despite claiming to have broken a shoulder and who appears well-fed, with pale, unblemished skin – seemed in such good shape after such a gruelling ordeal.
3897
A major air and sea search and rescue operation was launched after emergency services received reports that someone had fallen from the cliff at Spittal Point, Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland.
3898
Eventually he spoke to new United boss Louis Van Gaal, who confirmed that he wasn't part of his first-team plans and so he headed back on a season-long loan deal to Palace, where he flourished under Alan Pardew, and the deal was made permanent in February this year.
3899
A photograph taken on October 30, 1974, shows Muhammad Ali (left) and George Foreman (right)
 during the iconic Rumble in the Jungle in 1974 .
3900
The controversial batsman has been named in Surrey's 13-man squad for the three-day warm-up against an Oxford University side at The Parks, which gets under way on Sunday.
3901
The Celtic boss leads his side into a Scottish Cup semi-final with Inverness at Hampden on Sunday with a 12.15 kick-off.
'But I don't like that.
3902
BBC Trust chairman Rona Fairhead is facing calls to step down immediately as a director of HSBC over her links to the bank’s tax scandal.
3903
By comparison, the latest releases on Talk Talk-owned Blinkbox start at £3.49 to rent or £8.99 to buy a digital copy the user can keep and watch on up to five devices.
3904
Yet another moment that made Wembley the ideal setting for an FA Cup semi-final TV audience to enjoy even more magic from this season’s tournament?
3905
Mr May has previously said that the trio 'came as a package', while Hammond - not ruling out a return - said the sacking marked 'the end of an era'
3906
The egg hunt looks to raise money for Zaidee's Rainbow Foundation, which helps bring awareness of tissue and organ donation to the forefront .
3907
The world No 4 is into the semi-finals of the Miami Open, but not before getting a scare from 21 year-old Austrian Dominic Thiem, who pushed him to 4-4 in the second set before going down 3-6 6-4, 6-1 in an hour and three quarters.
3908
Scroll down for video .
The huge steel-and-glass building has specially designed 'huddle zones' and a 'meeting tower' on stilts in the atrium.
3909
The plunge means Britain will go from being hotter than Turkey and Ibiza to colder than Moscow, Stockholm and Finland in a matter of days.
3910
As a Chelsea player and coach, Clarke has fought hard across the capital with Arsenal over the years but through the first-half at Wembley, his Reading team struggled to match their illustrious opponents.
3911
Cecil Hamilton-Miller can be seen on the right, watching on as Bergen-Belsen camp commander Josef Kramer, known as The Beast of Belsen, is marched to his death at gunpoint following his trial in 1945 .
3912
Mitt Romney ended up winning Arizona's 11 electoral votes but Barack Obama won reelection 332 to 206.
Obama won reelection with 332 electoral votes to Romney's 206.
3913
Patricia Ebel, 49, was driving her 10-year-old grandson home after a day at the pool on Friday when she crashed her luxury black BMW 5-Series into a car that was stopped at an intersection in Naples, Florida.
3914
Parler left her son — who also has cerebral palsy — lying in leaves and covered with a blanket next to a wheelchair while she left town on a romantic getaway with her new boyfriend, John Ferguson, police said.
3915
She was lucky to escape from the IS capital Raqqa in Syria where she said women are forced to cover up in a burka and must not go out in public alone. A woman who has fled from Raqqa in Syria said women are forced to cover up (pictured posed by model)
3916
Clorox has apologized for a social media misstep after the household products company sparked outrage by tweeting 'where's the bleach' in reference to last week's introduction of new 'emoji' cartoons for iPhones that include several faces of people with black and brown skin.
3917
Helping hand:
Mr Cameron has pledged to create three million more apprenticeships over the next five years, if the Tories win the election.
3918
Hannah Jones Rodham, frequently described by Mrs Clinton as a 'strong willed woman' gave birth to Mrs Clinton's father Hugh E Rodham in 1911 and died in 1952 when Mrs Clinton was just five.
3919
Melvin the giraffe had got his head stuck in a fence when he was attacked by an eland antelope walking in the same enclosure at Kristiansand zoo, around 200 miles south of Oslo.
3920
Portugal's Record opted for the pun 'Fantasporto' as their headline for the next day, highlighting the club's fantastic performance, while Abola simply write: 'Superb!'
3921
Supermodel Maggie Rizer donned a string bikini while playing with her two-year-old son Quinnlyn Clancy on the beach - just nine weeks after she gave birth to her daughter Cecilia Kathryn .
3922
The female blue tit usually builds the nest by herself with very little help, or no help at all, from the male .
3923
Ms Scott (left) pictured with her sister Kim Scott (right) who said she spent Sunday morning picking up last-minute things for her wedding and honeymoon to Tahiti .
3924
Tiger's Nest, the most sacred site in the country, is perched precipitously on a narrow ledge high above the Paro Valley.
It tasted as sweet as ginger wine.
3925
Atletico Madrid and Real Madrid may have played out a goalless draw at the Vicente Calderon on Tuesday night, but there was still plenty to talk about after the Champions League first leg.
3926
Bayern Munich coach Pep Guardiola 'would not go to a club like Manchester City' and will see out his three-year contract with the German champions, club CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said on Thursday.
3927
Christy, pictured training her first marathon in 2011, launched Every Mother Counts in 2010, an organization dedicated to making pregnancy and childbirth safe for mothers around the world .
3928
Joseph O'Riordan, 74, stabbed his wife Amanda, 47, (pictured together above) nine times with a kitchen knife at the home they shared in Polegate, East Sussex, after discovering her affair with postman Nick Gunn .
3929
A 49-year-old cancer patient's giant tumour underneath her left breast (starred left) was 'completely destroyed' and 'dissolved away' (right) after she received a pioneering new drugs cocktail to treat melanoma .
3930
If you are an aspiring manager in English football and you are black, you get used to one thing: when an opportunity comes your way, it’s going to be the managerial equivalent of a hospital pass.
3931
You can read the full interview with Manchester United left-back Luke Shaw in this week's Match of the Day magazine, on sale between April 14-20.
3932
His first in the dugout was as assistant to Ruud Gullit in August, 1999, when on a sodden night at St James' Park the Dutchman left out Alan Shearer and Duncan Ferguson and paid for his selection with his job after a 2-1 defeat.
3933
On the phone: 'I was up against a lot of doctors that told me I was crazy and that my problems didn't exist,' the 30-year-old singer told ABC News .
3934
In the spotlight: Today had interviewed 70-year-old Michaels for a story Matt Lauer did on a New York gathering for people listed by TIME magazine as the 100 most influential in the world .
3935
Rihanna is a woman after Madonna's heart and last autumn was spotted carrying not one but two gun-themed bags while out for dinner in Santa Monica.
3936
Seconds later the men grab either end of a bag and throw it so hard that it hits a green barrier, causing it to shake as the suitcase bounded off of it and lands on the belt.
3937
She was handed a 12-month suspended jail sentence after admitting a charge of theft at Bolton Crown Court.
It's an awful thing to do to a dying woman.
3938
Ed Balls said: 'The IFS has confirmed that the Tories are committed to the most extreme spending plans of any political party, with bigger cuts than any other advanced economy in the next three years'
3939
Negri joined the Ibrox outfit from Italian side Perugia for £3.5million in 1997, scoring a staggering 23 goals in his first 10 league games for the club.
3940
A dramatic rescue earlier in the week led to 210 mainly-Burmese nationals being identified, the vast majority of whom said they were desperate to leave the island village of Benjina.
3941
Truckers from Bulgaria, Poland and Romania who already work in the UK are being offered £100 by employment agency Mainline (pictured) to lure drivers from their home country to work in Britain .
3942
AP McCoy will race at Sandown on Saturday for the last time before he retires following a successful career .
It is a bit like a coiled spring.'
3943
The main shape of the tree supported what other paleontologists had previously proposed, but fossils that were originally labelled Brontosaurus appeared different from two Apatosaurus species.
3944
The dome-like lamp can be controlled wirelessly from any iOS or Android device via the Philips Hue app (pictured) or any third party app developed for the Hue .
3945
Scorers: Gestede 78, Rhodes 90+3 . MILLWALL (4-2-3-1): Forde 6; Dunne 6.5, Nelson 5.5, Beevers 6, Harding 5 (Taylor-Fletcher 83); Bailey 5.5, Abdou 5; Gueye 5 (Cowan-Hall 61, 5.5), O’Brien 6.5, Woolford 6; Fuller 6.5 (Gregory 61, 6).
3946
Guardiola was a former team mate of Luis Enrique, as was Almeria's new coach Sergi Barjuan, who agreed to take over at the struggling Andalucian side on Monday following Sunday's sacking of Juan Ignacio Martinez.
3947
The multi-millionaire owner of the Nina Ricci fashion company was today sent to prison for trying to hide her fortune from the French taxman through HSBC bank.
3948
Ms Giffords shared a picture of her and husband Mark Kelly visiting the Space Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in LA and reminded her followers that he flew it .
3949
Caged:
Three of the fully grown dogs were found by RSPCA inspectors crammed in puppy cages and the majority were kept in a squalid garden shed.
3950
The find, announced by British firms that share the exploration area (Premier Oil, Rockhopper Exploration and Falkland Oil & Gas), could be worth billions of pounds and will increase fears of renewed conflict over the British overseas territory.
3951
MINUTES/DISTANCE TO BURN THE CALORIES: 30 minutes each (an hour in total) SMARTIES MEDIUM EGG FILLED WITH SMARTIES .
30 minutes each (1 hour 30 minutes in total)
3952
Mr Hendrick argues that schools should concentrate on boosting pupils’ confidence by teaching them well and providing ‘clear and achievable paths to academic success’.
3953
After Apollo, she photographed Avery, a little girl born prematurely who underwent multiple brain surgeries, Melanie, a four-year-old with autism and epilepsy, and Cody, a red-headed boy with Down syndrome.
3954
The creator behind the project, English, was previously the brains behind Brown, the show starring Candice Bergen that centered around a female news anchor and ran for ten seasons, winning 18 Emmys.
3955
Fenerbahce's bus came under armed attack as it drove to the airport following an away match at Caykur Rizespor, which Fener won 5-1, in Turkey's Super Lig.
3956
Cordula Schacht, pictured (left) with her father and Hitler’s economist Hjalmar Schacht, is representing Goebbels' estate in the case against Random House Germany and its imprint Sidler over Peter Longerich's book (right)
3957
UK Power Networks said that 100 staff had worked through the night to restore electricity to the area, but it is not known when buildings will regain power.
3958
Authorities near Flagstaff, Arizona, have found fleas infected with plague after prairie dogs in Picture Canyon began dying (file photos)
3959
She used an eyeliner pencil to leave her mark on the marble on Monday morning, but it did not leave any permanent damage, Italian newspaper La Nazione reported.
3960
The young bow tie-wearing actor went on to make a swift recovery and bounced back to the podium - 'thank you!
At least I'm alive,' Poe chuckled .
3961
The panel has been told Ms Ratcliffe accepts 77 allegations relating to her care and treatment of 14 patients at the scandal-hit Furness General Hospital in Cumbria between February 2004 and September 2013.
3962
A mother was holding the two-year-old boy and another child when the toddler slipped and fell into the cheetah exhibit at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo (file photo of cheetahs at the Cleveland zoo)
3963
Apple Watch, available for pre-order on Friday, April 10, 2015, comes with a choice of watch case, band and size _ there are 54 possible configurations in all.
3964
The GATA2 gene is important in the production of blood cells, and the disorder means a sufferer's blood count might be low, making them more vulnerable to infection.
3965
'I feel great.
Leading up to the Manchester United game I had a full week of training as well, so it's been two weeks of full training,' he said.
3966
Robbie Fowler scored the quickest hat-trick in Premier League history for Liverpool against Arsenal in 1994 .
Liverpool 4-4 Arsenal .
Liverpool .
3967
Aside from the lace bust, the dress is a mixture of nylon, cotton and polyester.
Caroline Hendry, editor of hitched.co.uk, said: ‘There will always be a place in the bridal market for designer gowns but it’s great that the new wedding dress from F&F at Tesco offers something stylish for brides on a budget.
Aside from the lace bust, the dress is a mixture of nylon, cotton and polyester.
3968
The unarmed 22-year-old, Cao Yu, held off the man in a terrifying five-minute struggle in a public square in Guizhou province in southwestern China earlier this month.
3969
New figures from the UK Civil Aviation Authority shows 238m passengers passed through British airports in 2014, just three million less than the pre-recession boom peak of 241m in 2007 and 10m more (a 4.4 per cent rise) than 2013.
3970
Liverpool versus Newcastle games have seen a total of 130 goals, the joint-third highest scoring fixture in Premier League history and the most involving a team who have not been ever-present in the competition.
3971
A practice-round tradition at this grand old tournament is to gather around the beautiful par-three 16th hole and see which players are talented enough to skip their golf balls across the water and on to the green.
3972
On loan Real Madrid striker Javier Hernandez is ready to lead the line in their pivotal Champions League quarter-final second leg tie against bitter city rivals Atletico, according to AS.
3973
Easy does it: Video footage shows the pup lying on her back with a tennis ball neatly clutched between her front paws - she then proceeds to lift it into the air being careful not to drop it .
3974
'It was shattering,' Mr Gee told Daily Mail Australia.
'It was shattering,' Mr Gee told Daily Mail Australia, after he had to dig the hole himself .
3975
Violent protesters in Baltimore, Maryland injured several police officers on Monday, throwing bricks and rocks at the overwhelmed cops hiding behind riot armor.
3976
Rangers must pay Newcastle an extra £500,000 over and above wages for the loan players if they go up through the play-offs but McCall would be delighted if that happens.
3977
Every time you would play for the national side people would say, 'you have to play like Rigobert Song' because they know he never gives up and shows a fighting spirit.
3978
Kluivert, whose mother is from Curacao, was a World Cup losing semi-finalist in 1998 as a player, and last year as assistant to coach Louis van Gaal.
3979
Managers: Dick Advocaat (Sunderland), Alan Pardew (Crystal Palace) Head-to-head league record: Sunderland wins 10, draws 10, Crystal Palace wins 11 .
3980
Saracens chairman Nigel Wray has dismissed rugby’s salary caps rules as ‘a farce’ in financial documents seen by The Mail on Sunday that show his club’s wage bill soared by another £1million last season alone — even as they remain the subject of a salary cap investigation.
3981
Managers: Tony Pulis (West Brom), Nigel Pearson (Leicester) Head-to-head league record: West Brom wins 45, draws 20, Leicester wins 30 .
3982
Iona Costello, 51 (left) and her 14-year-old daughter Emily (right) have been missing for almost three weeks after last being seen on March 30 near their home in the wealthy seaside village of Greenport .
3983
Nigel Farage (above) faced claims of a ‘cover-up’ last night for censoring a poll that suggests he is on course for a humiliating personal defeat in the General Election .
3984
The previous SpaceShipTwo was destroyed on 31 October 2014 when co-pilot Michael Alsbury accidentally pulled a lever that activated the craft’s ‘feathering system’.
3985
Louise Henderson Alakil, 49, moved to the Middle Eastern country 27 years ago and worked as a teacher at the International School in the capital Sanaa until recent fighting forced it to close.
3986
President Barack Obama has held the fewest number of state dinners since Harry S. Truman, who left office 62 years ago.
2011:
2011:
2015:
3987
Shattering its windscreen, this is the incredible moment a bus ploughed into a passenger plane at Tashkent airport in Uzbekistan.
3988
'Scans this week revealed a grade two hamstring strain which will keep the French international sidelined for around three to four weeks,' said a statement on the official Swansea website.
3989
Tynes and another player, offensive guard Carl Nicks, both contracted Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections during a July 2013 outbreak of the  infection during the Buccaneers' summer training camp prior to the season.
3990
In a statement, they said: 'The Texas Veterinary Medical Association (TVMA) strongly condemns the actions of a veterinarian who claims to have recently shot and killed a feral cat with the use of a bow and arrow.
3991
I’m never concerned about my job,’ said Pellegrini, who next up face rivals United at Old Trafford on Sunday.
We managed to get it.
3992
Visit site .
Ever the style maven, even the pink laces in her running shoes matched the Nike tick on her sports cap, while the lead on her earphones appeared to be a part of the colour coordinated ensemble too.
3993
Tom Varndell helped himself to a hat-trick against London Welsh as Wasps won away from home in the Aviva Premiership for the first time in 2015 to keep their top-six hopes alive.
3994
Taubman,  who donated hundreds of millions of dollars to universities, hospitals and museums, died Friday night at his home of a heart attack, according to son Robert S. Taubman, president and CEO of Taubman Centers, Inc.
3995
The Chinese feminist activists (all pictured) have been detained by police for more than a month and face being jailed for up to five years if they are charged with 'picking quarrels and provoking trouble'
3996
Zinedine Zidane is confident Paris Saint-Germain can beat Barcelona and progress to the Champions League semi-finals on Tuesday night.
3997
The 37-year-old replaced Diego Costa during the second half of Chelsea's 2-1 win over Stoke on Saturday after the Spain international was forced off with a hamstring injury.
3998
The puppies have worms and are malnourished, and it is likely they have lived their entire lives in a cage, according to McKamey Animal Center where the dogs are being treated.
3999
'Add your name if you are too,' he added, including a link to a Cruz for President petition asking for supporters' email addresses and zip codes .
4000
Bad Girls Club star Linsey 'Jade' Berardi has died aged 22 .
Her former nemesis Jada wrote on Instagram: 'Sad to find out @misslinseyjade life was cut so short...
4001
He appeared to be laughing and making jokes with his colleagues inside the KJ Rail van as he hung his body - and even a leg - out of the vehicle.
4002
Kim also admitted that she is usually responsible for dressing North, she said the 37-year-old rapper always finds something 'super cute' for their little girl to wear.
4003
Hut 433 on Mudeford Spit (pictured) went on sale for £270,000 in July 2014 - making it the most expensive beach hut in Britain .
4004
Before she lost the weight, Rebecca, seen in her plus-size prime, scored a number of high profile campaigns, which could earn as much as £2,000 for a day's shoot as a size 16 or size 18 .
4005
There were scenes of jubilation in the Dutch city of Dordrecht today, as flag-waving locals turned out to welcome King Willem-Alexander and his glamorous wife Maxima today.
4006
A 16-year-old filmed throwing a kitten against a door and flushing it in the toilet has been banned from keeping animals for ten years after it had to be put down because of the abuse it suffered.
4007
Prosecutor Marilyn Lester told the Darwin Magistrates Court that Costa told the taxi operator that he was searching for a woman who had abducted a young boy.
4008
Music artist Liljamez posted the photo of the 'Money' Mayweather, who is expected to earn a staggering $180m from the pay-per-view fight.
4009
'The new 500ml bottles now feature a larger label with the distinctive colour and description of the variant clearly displayed and the new red caps have the Coca-Cola variant clearly labelled on the top.
4010
Well, this docile dog could just sum up how you feel.
Footage shows him being positioned on his back legs, with his eyes immediately starting to close.
4011
‘There are many people who have said I came from a poor background.
I don’t think people brought up in my time thought they were poor.
4012
Worried Jiang Min says she has now run out of cash and can’t even afford food, let alone medical treatment, for baby Mengyu and their older daughter.
4013
The 32-year-old from Eastleigh has been charged with 28 separate offences against two children that include rape and sexual activity with a child.
4014
Barcelona boss Luis Enrique has urged his players to shut the Champions League out of their minds and concentrate on extending their lead at the top of the La Liga table on Saturday.
4015
Several election pledges in Miss Sturgeon's manifesto overlap with Labour policy, including slashing tuition fees in England from a maximum of £9,000 a year to £6,000, and rolling back competition in the English NHS .
4016
Her six sons and a daughter ranging in age from 10 months to 10 years have been ordered to remain in quarantine at their house in Kanata until they stop being contagious, which will take five days.
4017
Antonio Conte insisted his return to Turin for Italy's 1-1 draw against England prompted 'very fond memories', despite reports he received death threats in the days leading up to the friendly.
4018
With millions of video views on the internet Shiba the dog uses his nose and paw to open a sliding glass window and greet customers or curious visitors who have travelled to the Shimada Cigarette Shop from afar.
4019
Photos posted on her Weibo account show Ms Zhu taking Five Flowers and her rabbit out to the local park for a walk with the pig dressed in a fetching green T-shirt and a body harness.
4020
The threats posed by Asian hornets are to be discussed at a summit meeting by beekeepers, while UK beekeepers have been sent email alerts by Defra asking them to be on the look-out .
4021
Laurent Stefanini, 55, was in January asked by French President Francois Hollande (pictured) to represent their country at the Holy See .
4022
Classical singer Camilla Kerslake was centre of attention at Sunday's Olivier Awards after she suffered a wardrobe malfunction as she arrived with England rugby skipper boyfriend Chris Robshaw.
4023
Jordan Henderson was outstanding.
Luis Suarez was clearly Liverpool's player of last season after the striker scored 31 goals in the campaign .
4024
This is according to the National Radio Astronomy Observatory who is objecting to proposals by iRobot to release a radio wave-guided lawnmower.
4025
Churchill (left), then 84, was President Eisenhower's (centre) guest of honour at the gathering, held at the home of the US ambassador in London, in 1959 .
4026
Jessica had her husband Aaron Carey create the stunningly accurate tattoo of Patty on her forearm based on a childhood portrait.
4027
Barcelona ace Neymar scored twice as Barcelona cruised past Ligue 1 giants Paris Saint-Germain at the Nou Camp.
Lionel Messi 6.5:
SUBS .
Even before he was taken off, Barcelona’s half-time substitute Xavi had already had more touches of the ball than he had enjoyed in the entire game.
SUBS .
4028
More than 10 firefighters were needed to extinguish the flames.
Leo's owner Allen Mosey examines the damage caused to his home by the fire in Peckham, south-east London .
4029
An elderly couple has spent four years living in the shadows after being forced to board up their windows because of constant anti-social behaviour.
4030
But the World Cup . . . special dispensation . . . if Clermont continue the way they are, I stay injury-free and I keep playing some good rugby, then maybe it’s a possibility in the same way that people have been talking about Steffon (Armitage).
4031
Scorers: Gueye 79', Hooiveld 87' Charlton: Henderson, Solly, Gomez, Johnson, Fox, Gudmundsson, Diarra, Cousins, Eagles (Bikey), Vetokele (Bulot), Watt (Church).
4032
Marcia's body was found 33 days after she disappeared and Ritter's then-husband advised her against seeing the body and the crime scene photos.
4033
He scored in last season's Under 21 Premier League final with Manchester United at Old Trafford and contributed a crucial late goal in the first leg of the Youth Cup final with Fulham.
4034
Speaking to TMZ, Michael (pictured with daughter Lindsay and ex wife Dina Lohan in 2003) blamed his ongoing custody battle with Dina for his fiery relationship with his new wife .
4035
Barcelona will dedicate a museum exclusively to the New York director, who picked the Catalan capital for the setting of his Oscar winning film, Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
4036
Rumors have persisted since the January 1 accident that the Nevada mob may have been involved, even though there's no evidence to suggest the Reid was the victim of an organized attack.
What he didn't do is let us see his tax returns,' Reid told Ramos, claiming he's said as much 'many times.'
Let the American people judge that,' he stated.
4037
Bild (left) lead on Pep Guardiola's trousers while Kurier report on a 'fixed' Bayern Munich after beating Porto .
It even bursts Pep's pants!'
4038
Celtic striker Leigh Griffiths has a goal-bound shot blocked by the outstretched arm of Josh Meekings .
‘I knew it was a penalty,’ said Celtic striker Leigh Griffiths.
4039
An 18-year-old University of Carolina freshman who was found dead after a St Patrick's Day party died of alcohol poisoning in a 'tragic and totally preventable death', a coroner has ruled.
4040
Chelsea striker Didier Drogba has been forced to withdraw from a charity match after picking up an ankle injury that leaves the Barclays Premier League leaders with no fit strikers ahead of their game against Arsenal on Sunday.
4041
The BBC has refused to hand over the emails of a deceased woman to her grieving husband, who believes they will prove she was ‘bullied’ by the Corporation’s management towards the end of her life.
4042
The Rosetta probe, which carried the Philae lander, launched into space in 2004, using the gravity of Earth and Mars to slingshot its way towards comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko.
4043
After two trips to Augusta National this week, Woods announced his return to the competition (above Woods at the Phoenix open on January 30) Woods hits a shot on the fourth hole during the final round of the 2013 Masters Tournament at Augusta National in April 2013 .
4044
Ba Van Nguyen was able to fly a CH-47 Chinook, the largest helicopter in the South Vietnamese army, with his three young children and wife out of the city and into the South China Sea where they were all ultimately saved by the USS Kirk.
4045
Lisicki and Williams shake hands at the net after the tight match at the Miami Open .
Simona Halep celebrates after beating Sloane Stephens to reach the Miami Open semi-finals .
4046
Yellow and red cards .
E.g. returning the ball to the opponent at a throw-in, helping an injured opponent: maximum five points, minimum one point.
4047
Former national team captain Rio Ferdinand posted a picture to Instagram from his time in the white of England.
4048
ISIS has released a chilling new propaganda video warning there is 'no safety for any American on the globe' and claiming the U.S. will burn in another 9/11-style attack.
4049
Using several telescopes, including Nasa's Chandra X-ray Observatory, researchers have found evidence that a white dwarf star - the dense core of a star like the Sun that has run out of nuclear fuel - may have ripped apart a planet as it came too close.
4050
Jared Milrad (pictured right) and his fiancé Nate Johnson, who are campaigning Democrats, were featured in Hillary Clinton's video announcing her 2016 White House bid .
4051
Now with Sherwood hopefully a generation can grow with his side.
Aston Villa celebrate winning the European Cup after beating Bayern Munich in Rotterdam 33 years ago .
4052
The hot spot, near the Four Corners intersection of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Utah, covers only about 2,500 square miles (6,500 square kilometers), or half the size of Connecticut.
4053
Parental supervision: Alex (pictured) says she would never let her daughter have a cell phone during sleepovers at her house because of this app .
4054
Three points were all that separated Barnet from the Conference title, and two goals from Mauro Vilhete ensured Martin Allen’s fourth spell in charge of the club would be his most successful.
4055
From a man obsessed with looking like Kim Kardashian to a woman who had cement injected into her face, reality TV’s favorite doctors are back to taking on some of the world’s most shocking plastic surgeries gone wrong.
4056
Manchester City boss Manuel Pellegrini has warned his side must overcome a difficult obstacle at Crystal Palace to avoid losing yet more ground to their rivals.
4057
He was eventually arrested in November in a cafe after posing outside five different police stations over two weeks and was this week jailed for eight months.
4058
Kimberly Dianne Richardson, left, was rushed to hospital in Raleigh, North Carolina, but died in the early hours of Sunday.
4059
A group of disabled Manchester City supporters say they are 'disgusted' with the club after they hiked prices of some season tickets by £345 to £975.
4060
Jonathas took advantage of a defensive blunder to give Elche a 1-0 win against Real Sociedad in La Liga on Monday night.
4061
John Carver says he would walk away from Newcastle United if the club’s hierarchy had not given him assurances of serious summer investment.
4062
Islam will be the fastest growing religion in the world over the next four decades but Christians will remain the largest group in 2050, the report reveals.
4063
Lisa McElroy, 50, reportedly sent the explicit link to her Drexel University students under the subject line 'Great article on writing briefs' on March 31.
Drexel  conducted an internal investigation after the incident and  found that McElroy, a tenured professor, had not violated the university's sexual harassment and misconduct policy.
4064
At this point, the researchers don't know if other pain relievers such as ibuprofen and aspirin have the same effect, although they plan on studying that question.
4065
Williams was awarded a full-time sevens contract in 2012 and he has scored 36 tries on the World Series circuit.
4066
Peter Gale, 47, was dismissed by Nonsuch High School For Girls in Surrey for ‘unprofessional and inappropriate conduct’ two weeks ago.
Messages:
4067
The body of Sarah Fox, 27, was found by police on Thursday night, just hours before her 57-year-old mother Bernadette was found dead at sheltered accommodation just half a mile away in Bootle, Merseyside.
4068
The 96-year-old, who claimed he was himself abused at a notorious Jersey children's home, first targeted his victims when they were just five-years-old.
4069
Compared with X Factor's 2014 winner Ben Haenow, whose debut single landed the Christmas number one spot, Jermain's success has so far been what you could call limited.
4070
The frequent moves Rose and her family underwent after the superstorm made finishing school work difficult for Rose, but she never gave up on her dream of attending an Ivy League school .
4071
Spanish police have killed a man in his 70s who barricaded himself into his home after shooting his daughter's boyfriend and a police officer last night.
4072
The classic denial, 'This old thing?' continues to be used in full force by Australians, according to a new study.
 17 per cent will hide their credit card spending, versus 14 per cent of men .
4073
The Mercedes driver was complimentary of Ferrari and described their pace as 'dangerous' and 'worrying' Ferrari duo Kimi Raikkonen and Sebastian Vettel finished third and fourth quickest, just over half a second adrift of Rosberg.
4074
In the music video, Alissa holds up a sign that reads: 'Dare to dream.'
Towards the end of the video, Alissa raises a sign that reads: 'Dare to dream.'
4075
As things stand the three promoted clubs, Leicester, Burnley and QPR, would make an immediate return to the championship, but Hull and Sunderland are teetering on the brink.
4076
Alaska Airlines Flight 448 bound for Los Angeles was forced to return to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport Monday when passengers heard banging and pleas for help coming from beneath the aircraft.
4077
Nigeria's new President marked the first anniversary since more than 200 schoolgirls were abducted by Boko Haram militants by saying he did not know if they would ever be found.
4078
There is also growing evidence that immediate cord-clamping can be particularly harmful for premature babies.
‘At times I felt like a whistleblower.’
4079
Authorities who arrested Durst in mid-March found $44,000, marijuana and a revolver at his hotel room in New Orleans.
4080
Defence Minister Kevin Andrews has failed to name the leader of terrorist organisation the Islamic State on the same day the Federal Government announced they would be sending more than 300 Australian troops to Iraq.
4081
If you want skills and technique, play on better surfaces.
Deila berated the state of pitches in Scotland and claimed it would be better to play on artificial surfaces .
4082
When they find dry rot they stop, stare at it and point with their nose, only moving from the affected area when Mr Doggett gives them a special signal .
4083
A Pew Research Center survey found that 92 percent of US teens go online daily - and 25% admit they are online constantly.
4084
The finding comes amid reports that companies such as Google and Uber are working on technology to develop driverless taxis.
'The vehicles stopped.
4085
'A 25-year-old man and a 22-year-old woman have been arrested on suspicion of murder and are currently helping police with their inquiries'.
4086
Expelled: Siyanda Ngwenya (pictured), a contestant on the South African version of Big Brother, has been accused of 'sexual misconduct' with a female housemate after drunken night of partying on the show .
4087
Kupstys was released from Lincoln Prison, seen in the background, instead of being taken to court and spent several hours sitting at this bus stop until bungling prison officers realised their mistake .
4088
A set of 500 limited edition copies of Kim Kardashian's highly-anticipated selfie book Selfish, which were signed and numbered by the reality star, sold out less than a minute after going on sale.
Visit site .
4089
Two-thirds of goldfish owners owned up to putting the bowl in sight of the TV and even the owner of a micro pig lets their pet watch 28 hours of TV a week .
4090
The mother-of-two explained that she recently underwent a breast biopsy, but no sign of cancer was discovered until she sought the opinion of a second doctor on the advice of a friend.
4091
Chantelle Doherty, 21, of Prestwich, Greater Manchester, was involved in a raid on the home of a 92-year-old man in which she and another man bluffed their way in and stole several bottles of whisky, a decanter and a phone.
4092
The 23-year-old driver and his two adult passengers managed to escape unharmed after the blue Mitsubishi Lancer sunk to the bottom of the pool at Hinchinbrook in Sydney's north-west early on Friday morning.
4093
In seven days, over $47,000 has been raised by 956 people and the link has been shared nearly 1000 times .
Hugs from our family to yours!' wrote another.
4094
He said: ‘Laser eye surgeons are, at present, only required to be registered as doctors; no specialist qualifications are legally required to carry out a laser eye procedure.
4095
Two entries won the first division share of Oz Lotto's $40 million jackpot draw on Tuesday 14 April, each worth $20 million.
4096
Blunder: HSBC has apologised after a link on its official website directed visitors to a pornographic page (pictured)
Embarrassing:
4097
Lucy Southern, who worked behind the bar at the hotel owned by Britannia Hotels in Leeds, was quizzed about her sex life and asked whether she wore stockings in bed by her line manager Alex Nkoroi.
4098
Scientists have discovered an Achilles’ heel of prostate (pictured) cancer that could lead to better treatment for many  men diagnosed with the disease .
4099
Jeanetta Riley (pictured left with her husband Shane), 35, a mother-of-three daughters was killed last July after she brandished a knife at two cops outside of a hospital in Sandpoint on the evening of July 8, 2014 .
4100
Turkish security guard Cengiz Güven outside the Lone Pine Cemetery on the Gallipoli Peninsular in the lead up to the Anzac Day ceremony .
4101
It is not the first time an amusing image of the 91-year-old dictator has emerged, with one of him falling down podium steps outside Zimbabwe's Harare Airport (pictured) becoming an internet sensation earlier this year .
4102
More than anything, I am going to miss you all,' Holder told the standing-room-only crowd, many of whom embraced him after he concluded his speech.
4103
Millions have fled Syria to escape the violence, seeking shelter in overflowing refugee camps in bordering countries as well as making perilous journeys to Europe by land and sea .
4104
UKIP leader Nigel Farage (pictured canvassing today) says the party is only seen as racist by white people .
A ghastly yobbo, that's what they think I am.
4105
On his website, Mr Pettigrew, 46, wrote that the upcoming photography book (pictured) is 'dedicated to showing how beautiful those fighting CF truly are'
4106
Flooding in Maitland.
Newcastle - Max 19 degrees, mostly sunny . Gosford - Max 20 degrees, mostly sunny .
Sydney - Min 15 to max 20 degrees, showers .
4107
In the incident, which was captured on camera, the balloon catches the side of the tower and the basket, which carries three occupants, plummets to the ground.
4108
Last week Real Madrid chief Zinedine Zidane admitted the Spanish giants were scouting the Liverpool star, while Bayern Munich are also interested.
4109
Wood Green animal charity has teamed up with cleaning and DIY app Handy to offer customers a cat fostering service.
4110
Wenger said: 'We are not there yet.
Wenger said: 'Liverpool is a good side, there is always a good game at the Emirates and at Liverpool as well.
4111
Speaking on BT Sport's The Clare Balding Show on Thursday night, Hamilton revealed how once stepped on the foot of former USA President Bill Clinton in his excitement to meet Hollywood actor Will Smith.
4112
Erik Compton shares a joke with Jim Furyk during a practice round at Augusta ahead of the Masters .
'But it wasn't long after that Erik started winning those tournaments. ...
4113
James Milner intends to play a waiting game until the end of the season before making a final decision on his Manchester City future.
4114
The Rubber Bowl hosted 310 UA football contests, 19 preseason Cleveland Browns' games, a regular-season NFL game in 1952 and over 1,500 high school games, according to FootballPark.com.
4115
James Ward (pictured) was left with a severed finger and wounds all over of his body after being attacked at his home by axe-wielding intruders .
4116
Philippe Coutinho scored the decisive goal for Liverpool with 20 minutes to play in their quarter-final replay at Ewood Park .
Aston Villa vs Liverpool .
4117
The divorced Garden City mother said she did not get custody of her son back following a hearing on Monday in Finney County District Court, after Kansas authorities had placed the boy into protective custody.
4118
Mr Tuckett says his customers love the Model T - the first affordable mass-produced car - because they don't require need road tax or an MOT and are cheaper to maintain than a modern car, with each one selling for  around £10,000.
4119
It’s always like that.
As an ex-player you are not used to working very hard and he is a very hard worker, and he reads the game very well like Jose.
4120
When Aston Villa's animated manager threw his gilet to the ground in celebration at the sight of Christian Benteke's first half equaliser, he probably rather hoped his players were man enough to remain in the Barclays Premier League after all.
4121
Photographer Andy Hutchinson described the sight as a 'beautiful supernatural scene' caused by millions of plankton omitting light.
4122
Andrew Flintoff has called on the English cricketing public to show their love for the NatWest Twenty20 Blast - and under-pressure Test captain Alastair Cook.
4123
Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho will persist with struggling midfield trio Cesc Fabregas, Nemanja Matic and Oscar as he refuses to shuffle his squad so late in the season.
4124
The two-page booklet details President Barack Obama's expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) policies, which have been placed on hold by a court order .
4125
Veteran BBC commentator Peter Alliss has said that the corporation should have tried harder to win the rights to the Open Championship and that attempts to give women equal rights in golf have 'caused mayhem'.
4126
Janet and John Brennan have spent eight years and hundreds of thousands of pounds turning Barholm Castle, in Dumfries and Galloway, from a ruin into a stylish castle home.
4127
'And big players like (Laurent) Koscielny, like (Mesut) Ozil, like (Olivier) Giroud have been out four months in the season -- four months the three together!
4128
A Brazilian online football store claims to have next season's Chelsea kit for sale on its website - and it can be purchased with Gareth Bale's name on the back.
4129
Mystic Pizza (seen in 2008) has become a tourist attraction since Julia Roberts starred in the movie about the lives of three waitresses working at the small-town pizza parlor .
4130
Dr Seuss fans flock to Alaska to visit this 12-cabin-high structure that looks like one of his illustrations .
So they built up.
Birds-eye view:
4131
Manchester United heaped more pressure on the beleaguered City boss with a 4-2 win at Old Trafford, lifting them four points clear of their rivals in the race for a Champions League place.
4132
Among the reasons advanced for Sterling’s coldness towards a long-term commitment at Liverpool has been Rodgers’s recent decision to play him at right wing back.
4133
A still from the video which Robert Downey Jr recorded helping to raise more than £1million for Julia's House shows a worker at the hospice interacting with a child .
4134
Build up for Sunday’s Manchester derby has officially started with South American duo Radamel Falcao and Sergio Aguero featuring in a promo video for sponsors Puma.
4135
Raheem Sterling pulled off some fine skill to open the scoring in the ninth minute at Anfield before Joe Allen capitalised on a defensive mistake to score his first Anfield goal with 20 minutes to go.
4136
The bust came one week after Thai customs officials seized four tons of tusks that were smuggled from Congo and also destined for Laos in what they said was the nation's biggest ever seizure.
4137
Jenson Button crashed into the back of Pastor Maldonado's Lotus on lap 49 of the Chinese Grand Prix .
He was also given two penalty points on his superlicence.
4138
Investigators have released these images of football fans who were pictured carrying the wounded on stretchers and tending to others at the 1989 Hillsborough disaster .
4139
The most popular emoji on the site is the crying with laughter face, followed by the face with love hearts for eyes and blowing a kiss emoji.
4140
Christi Shepherd, seven, (left) and her brother Bobby, six, (right) died from carbon monoxide poisoning during a holiday in Corfu in October 2006.
4141
Juventus monitoring Raheem Sterling's situation at Liverpool.
Juventus are monitoring Liverpool wideman Raheem Sterling as the Serie A side look to strengthen .
4142
'What the Clinton Foundation has said is that we will be even more transparent' in the wake of the scandalous claims, said Chelsea, the philanthropy's vice chair, 'even though Transparency International and others have said we're among the most transparent of foundations.'
4143
According to the Cairns Post, Raine and Horne Port Douglas Mossman agent David Cotton feels confident 2015 will be the year for the unique home to find owners.
4144
A 'monster' pedophile, 70, who molested at least seven girls was sentenced to up to 50 years in prison on Thursday.
It's disgusting,' walker added.
4145
A spokesman for the budget airline said: 'Ryanair regrets to inform customers that it has been forced to cancel over 250 flights on Wednesday due to a French Air Traffic Control strike.
4146
'It's a difficult system to play against, but it's one of a number of systems we've played here and played very well.
'Blackburn have got some excellent players.
4147
Floyd Mayweather's spending habits are well known but his car dealer has revealed that the boxer bizarrely rang him at 3am to order a Bugatti - insisting the car was to be in his driveway in just 12 hours.
4148
This new method to measure electric fields in thunderclouds will contribute to a better understanding and ultimately better predictions of lightning activity.
4149
Nigella Lawson is returning to the BBC to host a show about 'back to basics' cooking for the first time since the explosive court case involving her ex-husband Charles Saatchi.
4150
A flickering rainbow of colours came with the March solar storm that made the Northern Lights even more remarkable than usual, and Italian photographer Giovanna Griffo was in Iceland to capture them in all their glory.
4151
What's worse than finding a cockroach in your Big Mac?
Ms Stevenson said she was trying to work her teeth through what must of been the insect's shell.
4152
Giggs described taking charge of United for four games last year as 'the proudest moment of my life'.
I am proud, I am happy, a little nervous.'
4153
COUNT 24: GUILTY . Possession and use of a firearm (a Ruger P95 9mm semiautomatic handgun and Pressure Cooker Bomb #3) during and in relation to a crime of violence; aiding and abetting .
4154
A new study says students on computer science and dentistry courses at British universities are much less likely to have had sex (picture posed by models)
4155
President Barack Obama's health care law requires nearly all Americans to have coverage, either through an employer, a government program, or by purchasing their own plan - those remaining uninsured risk fines .
4156
Police believe Ms Kovach-Suehn, who was the senior’s legal caretaker and had power-of-attorney, may have been deliberately starving the elderly man to get his money .
4157
Andras Janos Vass, 25, was found guilty of human trafficking and racketeering felonies this week after grooming fellow Hungarians online then keeping them captive in New York City and Miami.
4158
'When my great-grandfather arrived at the camp there were nearly 500 people dying each day, from the appalling conditions and the typhus outbreak.
4159
Melissa Borg left her Baulkham Hills home in north-west Sydney at 7:30am on Thursday in her school uniform and made her way to The Hills Sports High School in Seven Hills.
4160
Chris Robshaw is braced for further scrutiny after he was caught on camera holidaying in Barbados with girlfriend Camilla Kerslake.
4161
All eyes were on Ben Flower on Thursday night as he made his return from a six-month ban after being sent off for punching Lance Hohaia in the opening moments of Wigan's Grand Final defeat by St Helens last October.
4162
Pete Evans has shared two incredible stories on social media featuring women who claim that the Paleo diet has helped alleviate the symptoms of the incurable disease, multiple sclerosis.
4163
Fire boat Massey Shaw was requisitioned from the London Fire Brigade in 1940 and transported to Dunkirk to help with the evacuation of Allied troops in the face of the Nazi advance.
4164
A police officer who allegedly 'loves playing with dead bodies' has been accused of 'tickling' the feet and yanking on the head and toes of a dead man who had been recently shot killed by cops.
4165
Charlene Mess, 48, was arrested on Monday after her husband of 30 years, 52-year-old Douglas Mess, was found killed at their farm in Attica, New York.
4166
Footage shows the duo rolling around together and even stopping for nose rubs.
On a roll: Another video uploaded to YouTube shows the pet and baby up to similar antics .
4167
'Looking forward to going back to THE PLAYERS this year, hoping for a repeat of 2013,' he said.
'Not going to be for a while,' he said.
4168
Spanish paper Marca (left) previews Real Madrid's trip to Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday night - with the focus on superstar forward Cristiano Ronaldo after his five-goal haul against Granada at the weekend .
4169
Joe Hart bemoaned one of his 'worst days in a Manchester City shirt' following Sunday's derby thumping by Manchester United.
'I'm hurting from this defeat.
4170
While in Abu Dhabi she spent weeks researching the best way to transport Felix and she initially booked a ticket with a different airline, but there was a problem with the reservation and she was forced to switch to their flight and Felix's to Etihad Airways.
4171
Lihi Yona filmed the black pup enthusiastically jumping around in time to the squirts of water.
His bemused owner can be seen standing at the sidelines holding on to the pup's leash.
4172
In a recent test, repair specialists in Cardiff showed that the 38mm Sapphire screen remained scratch-free after being subjected to being rubbed with sandpaper, keyed and even hit with a hammer.
4173
The foursome identified as Harry Childs, Jack Hutchins, Dean Foreman and Bradley Pack were sentenced for affray on Friday, after being charged in July last year, due to their involvement in an act of violent disorder outside a west London pub.
4174
Jessica Carey (pictured with her husband Aaron, Rilie and two-year-old son) posted the video on Facebook with the caption: 'My four-year-old daughter learned a new song at school yesterday and can't quite get through it without crying'
4175
Mr Knox failed to return to his accommodation in the Fort William area yesterday, prompting staff to alert police to his disappearance.
4176
Police tweeted the anecdote after the man tried to lodge an official complaint at the Great Manchester Police Chadderton division.
4177
Robertson celebrates winning in his World Snooker Championship first round match against Wales's Jones .
4178
Broken eggs on the floor outside Bloomfield Road .
Dozens pelted the Bloomfield Road reception with eggs and flares before their draw against Reading last Tuesday.
4179
Manchester United winger Ashley Young is adamant that the club will be challenging for the Premier League title once more next season.
4180
Lord Tebbit has hit out at David Cameron for not being a ‘real man’ with ‘real depth of experience’.
He told the BBC’s Newsnight: ‘I just cannot read Mr Cameron’s mind.
4181
Fernando Torres scored his first ever league own goal as Atletico Madrid limped to a 2-2 La Liga draw against Malaga on Saturday.
4182
He has made 700 professional club appearances and won 81 caps for England, six Premier League titles, the FA Cup and the Champions League.
4183
A nine-year-old boy has died in hospital from injuries sustained in a horrific car crash that also killed his eight-year-old sister.
They are reported to be in a stable condition.
4184
Multi-millionaire Richard Harpin has given the Tories £375,000 since 2008 – including £50,000 in the first week of the election campaign, official records show.
4185
Pacquiao had been training in Los Angeles at trainer Freddie Roach's Wild Card Gym - an unassuming building that is surrounded by a launderette and a petrol station.
4186
Kurt Zouma was deployed in a defensive midfield role against Manchester United specifically to stop  Marouane Fellaini from continuing his good form at Stamford Bridge, according to Jose Mourinho.
4187
Ramires (left) is set to be restored to the Chelsea midfield for west London at QPR on Sunday .
4188
Martin Skrtel (left) says departing Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard is still one of the best players in the world .
I need to say thanks for that.'
4189
More than 2,200 Walmart employees are now unemployed after the retail corporation announced it was temporarily closing five stores for 'extensive' plumbing repairs.
4190
Nick Clegg - steps off a fishing boat as he visits Newlyn Harbour, near Penzance, Cornwall today - said wealthy people with holiday homes would not mind having to 'chip in a bit' to protect services in areas where as many as one in 10 homes are vacant for much of the year .
4191
The latest incident, affecting thousands of small silvery fish called twaite shad, began several days ago at the Rodrigo de Freitas lake, where the Olympic canoeing and rowing events are to be held.
4192
But now the Jamaican sprinter has had to lay off his beloved fast food and eat a 'lot more vegetables', despite confessing that 'he hates them all'.
4193
Foreign nationals living near Johannesburg were today seen removing items from their shops and shutting up their stores because of fears they could be targeted by protesters.
4194
Mixed martial arts fighter Anderson Silva will meet with Brazilian taekwondo officials in the hope of competing in next year's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, despite facing a possible doping ban.
4195
Bob Arum (centre) addresses the media at Pacquiao's open workout day in Los Angeles last week .
Mayweather visits SubZero Recovery in Las Vegas, a new-age version of the ice bath .
4196
He shot me, man.'
The fatally-wounded man, who is being held by his neck and back by the deputies (pictured), says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
4197
But mother-of-three Farhina Touseef - the subject of Channel 4's Unreported World - is risking her life by leading a team of medics as they travel door-to-door through dangerous Taliban strongholds offering the free vaccines to parents.
4198
Juan Mata has revealed that Wayne Rooney believes England can win Euro 2016 in France - and he tells him so every day.
4199
Miss Lawrence (right) was reported missing by her father Peter (left) on March 18, 2009 .
Miss Lawrence was last seen on March 18, 2009 .
March 18 .
A 59-year-old father-of-two from the York area is arrested on suspicion of murdering Miss Lawrence and released on bail the next day .
4200
Alexandra Allen,  from Utah suffers with the condition aquagenic urticaria, which is so rare it affects just 35 people in the whole world.
4201
Witness Robert Kushner lost his varsity coaching job at the Jack M. Barrack Hebrew Academy after testifying this week about his years selling marijuana .
4202
And the Prime Minister isn't the only politician guilty of causing kids to cringe; Ed Miliband, Ed Balls and Nick Clegg have all been pictured sharing awkward moments with youngsters.
4203
Keepers at the Columbus Zoo say ten-year-old Irisa had bred before but never conceived - however, this spring it was found the female cat was pregnant - with triplets .
4204
After speaking to President Barack Obama on the phone, he said in a televised statement just hours after the agreement was signed on Thursday: 'A deal based on this framework would threaten the survival of Israel.
4205
The ships desperately need a path cut through the lake by Canadian and US ice breakers, which have themselves been hampered by the extreme weather conditions .
4206
Referee: George Clancy (Ireland).
McCall said: 'When Jim took over in 2010 Donegal hadn't won a game for three seasons and hadn't won a championship in 19.
4207
Ridges are categorised as linear when they are significantly longer than they are wide, and they occur on isolated ridges of dunes as well as, more commonly, as sets of parallel ridges separated by miles of sand and gravel.
4208
Chad Geyen, a married father of two from Ramsey, Minnesota, was found dead on Sunday from a self-inflicted gunshot wound at a park near his home.
4209
Following the release of the video, Knight (pictured with his wife and two sons) put out a statement Tuesday apologizing for his conduct .
4210
Sajid Javid declared some values prevalent in certain Asian communities were 'totally unacceptable in British society'.
I hit him.
4211
‘Wakē uses a parametric speaker (like a laser beam of sound) to deliver focused, soothing sounds that start quietly, and grow louder slowly as the light beam grows brighter,’ according to the device’s Kickstarter page.
4212
Firefighters told CBS2 that as much as 2 feet of murky water, more than enough to reach the electrified third rail, had accumulated in some places before the water began to recede.
The official New York City Transit Subway Twitter account posted pictures starting around 9pm showing crews working toward getting the water pumped out.
4213
'I said that to him again in yesterday's training session, and then I kissed him at half-time because he had controlled the ball for the first time in his life and then he shot.
4214
156 truck drivers tested positive for drugs on Victoria's roads in the past year alone and it was revealed that they are using their log books to roll out lines and smoke ice.
4215
Manchester United have offered to make David de Gea the world’s best-paid goalkeeper on £200,000-a-week to keep him at Old Trafford.
4216
But after liberating a nation to spend their money as they wish, Steve Webb has now urged people to take their time rather than make rash decisions.
4217
Newcastle United have upset supporters after dumping pictures of Sir Bobby Robson’s title-chasing team in a skip outside St James’ Park.
4218
The unnamed man was sprinting ahead of the animal, trying to make it to the safety behind a set of iron bars when the angry animal sent him sprawling to the floor.
4219
One of the stunning watercolours, showing the moment Dorothy, Toto, the Tinman, the Lion and the Scarecrow meet the Wizard of Oz for the first time, went for £25,000.
4220
Jose Enrique (right) was joined by Mamadou Sakho (second right) and Alberto Moreno (left)
Enrique (right) and Moreno (centre) pose from their seats as Minaj performs below .
4221
The #SkyhighSelfie is one of the unusual extras being offered on the airline's Dreamliner 787 routes, alongside mood lighting to help with jetlag, windows that can be darkened with a touch of a button and full length windows in the toilets.
4222
Iona Costello, 51 (right) and her 14-year-old daughter Emily (left) have been missing for almost three weeks after last being seen on March 30 near their home in the wealthy seaside village of Greenport .
4223
Mundo Deportivo led on Barcelona slipping-up, describing a 'magic' first half, followed by a second full of individual errors after throwing away a two-goal margin but Gerard Pique was quoted saying: 'I'm sure we'll win the League.'
4224
Chelsea: Courtois 7.5, Ivanovic 6.5, Cahill 6.5, Terry 7, Azpilicueta 7, Ramires 5 (Oscar 56 6), Matic 6, Willian 6.5 (Cuadrado 80 5.5), Fabregas 6.5 (Zouma 90), Hazard 6, Drogba 6.
4225
Scroll down for video .
Kevin Gill, pictured in a mug shot, left, was arrested after deputies found he had a small alligator inside his Florida home.
4226
As dark clouds move over the city, the entire area is plunged into darkness - forcing motorists to turn on their lights as they navigate the darkened roads.
4227
They hate people who get up early in the morning and work to get a business off the ground, they hate people who take risks, hate people that earn money, hate people that create jobs.
4228
In court on Monday a young woman who was subjected to years of abuse by Bega Cheese boss Maurice Van Ryn has told a court of the severe impact it had on her life.
4229
Epping Ognar Railway has apologised for allowing the heritage railway to be used as a backdrop for pornography.
He apologised for a second time for any offence caused.
4230
Another exhibit at the Swedish sculpture park (left) and a rusty red car abandoned in a forest in Germany, pictured by Dieter in 2014 .
4231
Last week Lt. Park, the spokesman for the Vallejo Police Department, said that the kidnapping of Huskins, which triggered a statewide search that involved 100 volunteers, 40 detectives and numerous FBI agents, was  an 'orchestrated event.'
4232
Dr Alex Zhavoronkov, an anti-ageing expert, believes medical advances and knowledge of lifestyles will lead to a far longer life expectancy than has been seen to date.
4233
Anti-rape campaigners have criticised the  message in this Sussex Police poster arguing it implies that victims are to blame for getting raped .
4234
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has demanded a new European Union system that distributes asylum-seekers to member states based on their population and economic strength .
4235
But on Tuesday evening his brother Tobias received a call from John saying he had would be visiting in the coming weeks, reports Stuff NZ.
4236
Bolton will offer new contracts to Emile Heskey, 37, Eidur Gudjohnsen, 36, and goalkeeper Adam Bogdan, 27.
Both players have apologised to Lennon.
4237
Heather Hironimus fled with her son despite a judge's order to appear in court and to allow the circumcision favored by the child's father, Dennis Nebus, to go forward .
4238
They say you should never judge a book by it's cover, and it couldn't be more true of the tough looking, full-bodied tattooed English model Stephen James Hendry.
4239
Kevin Blandford's holiday snaps have gone viral on the internet, with each one showing him pulling the same sad face in an attempt to prove how much he missed his wife.
4240
Scene:
Inspired, Kemery did just that.
Mr. Kemery had been reliably informed by a friend that the best way to kill bedbugs was to douse them in alcohol.
4241
Those living in London are more likely to opt for a small and lap-sized dog (41 per cent) rather than a retriever-sized pooch (34 per cent).
4242
Football-mad Logan Kehoe, 13, was having a final dip in the pool at a holiday complex in Costa Teguise when he died in what Spanish police have described as an 'accidental drowning'.
4243
An frail elderly woman lost five kilograms in five days when she was being treated at Perth's new Fiona Stanley Hospital (FSH), but the West Australian health minister said doctors did nothing wrong.
4244
The Afghan Taliban has published a bizarre biography of their 'charismatic' supreme leader Mullah Omar - praising the one-eyed terrorist's 'special' sense of humour and love of grenade launchers.
4245
Dufner and wife Amanda married in 2012 and were considered one of the golden couples of golf, but the pair separated in February and the divorce was finalised on March 31.
4246
Leeds XI: Silvestri 6; Wootton 6, Bamba 6.5, Cooper 5.5, Byram 6 (Montenegro 85); Ngoyi 6; Taylor 5 (Antenucci 71, 6), Murphy 6, Mowatt 7, Berardi 6; Sharp 7.
4247
CLAIM:
MP Jesse Norman is being investigated by police over claims he attempted to 'bribe' voters with chocolate cake, pictured above .
4248
Visit site .
Kylie and Kendall are part of the new breed of the Kardashian family - while Khloe, Kourtney and Kim embrace the polished body-con look, the two younger sisters are more in tune with the grungy fashion of the last two years.
More recently, Tyga joined the Kardashian-Jenner family on a visit to church on Easter Sunday and last weekend he went on a road trip to Coachella with Kylie and her sisters Khloe and Kendall.
4249
The playboy gun-obsessive was forced into making the short film in order to avoid jail after being accused of placing homemade explosives in a tractor and shooting them .
4250
The 24-year-old, named locally as Sid Ahmed Ghlam, had shot himself in the leg before his arrest by anti-terrorist officers in the 13th arrondissement in southern Paris on Sunday.
4251
Everton manager Roberto Martinez insists the focus has to be on getting the most out of Aaron Lennon's loan spell before thoughts even turn to a permanent deal.
4252
Courtney and Billy had been planning to marry in seven months time but have had to bring forward the wedding because her condition has worsened .
4253
In what has become an annual Maundy Thursday tradition, Francis washed the feet of 12 prisoners detained at Rome's Rebibbia prison, including a transsexual.
4254
A friend of the couple’s said yesterday: ‘The girls were/are adored by their parents, anyone knowing them knows this - but it’s a shock to even their close friends that they didn’t attend school, no-one knew this.’
4255
Meanwhile, Ramsey refused to blame Green for Sunday's loss, despite the goalkeeper's crucial mistake.
We all make mistakes.
That's a mistake in itself.
4256
A video of Keane's car karaoke effort was posted on the Boy George and the Culture Club Facebook page and while the 34-year-old striker's enthusiasm can't be faulted, his command of the lyrics leaves a bit to be desired.
4257
Gary Teale hit back at Celtic boss Ronny Deila for his criticism of the St Mirren Park pitch on Monday night .
‘It’s maybe a bit firm but it’s an excellent surface.
4258
Owners of pets at the Westminster Dog Show in New York were told their pets were not on board their Delta flight, and disembarked to go and find them .
4259
Doctors diagnosed Ms Hamilton with a leiomyosarcoma  - a cancer of the soft tissue, the muscle, fat, blood vessels, or any of the other tissues that support, surround and protect the organs of the body .
4260
Farmers - many of them 'Grannies' whose children have died and who are now in charge of providing for their grandchildren -  have developed the potent strain through cross-pollination, and can now yield double the crop they once could annually.
4261
Then, as the photographer shows the third-grader the finished photo he took, he spots his father pulling a goofy jazz hands pose in the background and turns around to see him standing there.
4262
Parents need to keep their distance and trust schools and teachers instead of being 'dervishes ready to battle with anyone and anything on behalf of their child', a leading head teacher has said.
4263
The young boy at first doesn't seem too interested in the bear, then starts posing for the camera as the animal begins to interact and appears to try and bite him through the glass .
4264
The Royal Albert Hall declined to confirm the amount of the extra cake charge - but under the Hall’s booking conditions, extra fees are liable if products of commercial sponsors are promoted inside the building .
4265
Rooney said he and the rest of the England players were upset by their first half performance .
'We know we're better than that.
4266
In custody: Rodney Stover, 48, was arraigned on Thursday (pictured today) for rape, predatory sex assault and other charges for last Saturday's attack in the bathroom at the Turnmill Bar on East 27th Street .
4267
The Loose Women panellist aired her views on the ITV show in a discussion about overweight teenagers, saying that 'unhealthy lifestyles' should not be 'facilitated', and now the plus-size industry has taken to social media to share their own views on the topic .
4268
Sterling has already fallen nearly five per cent against the US dollar in the past five weeks amid jitters about the outcome of the general election.
4269
Sydney electronic duo The Presets, made up of Julian Hamilton and Kim Moyes, published a series of posts on its Facebook page on Saturday night and Sunday morning, hours after it was announced Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran would be executed this week.
4270
Man City are planning a mega-bid to sign Liverpool star Raheem Sterling when the transfer window reopens .
4271
Officials reported that 17 of the 50 buildings in the town are completely destroyed, while the other 33 have all been damaged in some way.
4272
Hilton's early header earned Montpellier a narrow 1-0 victory in their clash with Caen at Stade de la Mosson.
4273
The herd then stand and enjoy the music for some time while Andrea serenades them with his hand-made instrument.
4274
Kim Scott said her sister was 'excited' about marrying her partner of five years Mr Leeson-Woolley this coming Saturday, adding that she 'just wouldn't' run away.
4275
Searching leg-by-leg like this can save hundreds on your overall flight cost because flight search engines usually can't combine a long haul flight on one airline with a short flight on a separate budget airline.
4276
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Thursday demanded that all sanctions on Iran be lifted at the same time as any final agreement with world powers on curbing Tehran's nuclear program is reached.
4277
The suspect faces 19 years to life in prison if he is convicted and the preliminary hearing will resume on Monday .
The preliminary hearing will resume on Monday.
4278
The full list of elements that Dr Hanson says would be found in a human molecule if such a thing existed - each set of letters represent a chemical element and the numbers are the proporation of atoms in each 'molecule'
4279
Clarence Taylor, 44, remains at large after police in Akron, Ohio ordered his arrest in connected to a bizarre 'faked kidnapping' last fall .
4280
A 32-year-old English teacher admitted in court Thursday that she had sex with a 16-year-old student, in a forgiving plea deal that gets her out of serving any prison time or having to register as a sex offender.
4281
At the time she died in August, Charlotte was visiting the family farm in Acton, Suffolk while on day release from a mental health unit where she was treated for anorexia and depression.
4282
Pauline said Yvonne continued to be 'nasty' in this time and once again John said she hit him when he caught her prowling around his mother's house at night.
4283
McKay added that bringing on the next generation of Scottish rugby players was vital, which was why much of the cash would be spent setting up and running regional rugby academies over the duration of the BT deal.
4284
Gold was discovered by Aberdeen University in nearby Rhynie in the 1990s and has long been spotted in local streams.
I think we need a lot more information.'
4285
ROLE .
Gerrard almost snatched a dramatic equaliser with four minutes left, but his header was cleared off the line .
POSSESSION .
4286
They bounced back from Thursday's defeat by Queen of the South, with Nicky Clark and Haris Vuckic claiming a goal apiece and Nicky Law grabbing a double.
4287
South of Weld and Brown, in the affluent LA neighborhood of Brentwood, Scott Mathers, the owner of Hey! Tanks LA, has installed one of his company's 10,000-gallon rainwater tanks under his home as well as a smaller tank to collect gray water.
4288
Carrying a red rose and wearing a button featuring her son's image on her top,  Mr Figueroa's mother, Ana (pictured), wept as she watched his casket being loaded into a hearse outside the church .
4289
After James Anderson castled Kraigg Brathwaite with a venomous in-swinger in the third over, Chris Jordan had Devon Smith caught behind.
4290
Monsoon does bridal parties on a budget: (L-R) Flowergirl: Fallon Dress £50, bridesmaid: Madison Dress £119, baby Flowergirl: Arianne Dress, £49, bride: Eliza Dress, £499, bridesmaid: Nancy Dress, £119, pageboy: Buster 4-piece suit set, £45 .
4291
Gareth Bale drives an unstoppable left-footed bullet in at the far post during a routine training drill as Real Madrid train on Wednesday.
4292
The 26-year-old, who has so far earned four international caps for the Wallabies and is in with an outside chance of making Michael Chieka's World Cup squad later this year, took part in a promotional video as part of Nutri Grain's #Unstoppable campaign.
4293
A five-year-old Iranian girl who has spent more than a year in Australia's offshore Nauru detention centre has been prescribed anti-depressants, has self-harmed by swallowing shampoo and nails and has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, her lawyer says.
4294
Bates has said he mistakenly pulled out a handgun rather than a stun gun when he fatally shot Eric Harris on April 2 as he lay on the ground.
4295
The Great Dying, which struck the Earth 252 million years ago, wiped out more than 96 per cent of the world's creatures.
4296
Sachin Tendulkar has paid tribute to a 'promising' Indian cricketer who has died after colliding with a team-mate while attempting to take a catch during a club match in Kolkata.
4297
Leicester (4-3-1-2): Schmeichel 6; De Laet 4 (Wasilewski 46, 6), Huth 6.5, Morgan 6, Schlupp 6.5; Albrighton 6.5, James 6 (King 60, 6), Cambiasso 7; Nugent 7; Vardy 7.5, Ulloa 6.5 (Mahrez 64, 6).
4298
It is believed the animal, who has been named Fireman by its rescuers, was burned by chemicals at a foster home .
4299
Arsenal playmaker Mesut Ozil seemed to be in a enjoying his home comforts after arriving back in London following the international break, posting a picture putting his feet up with his dog.
4300
The Apple Watch is officially going on sale today - but none of its stores will have them in stock .
Usually, Apple launches generate long lines outside stores.
4301
The footage shows climber Karlis Bardelis carefully traversing the ridge, left, but one wrong move sends him tumbling down the icy cliff face in Coire an Lochain, Scotland, right .
4302
This comes a month after revelations that Mr Hallak was telling students at his school that Islamic State was not 'created' by Muslims, but was instead a plot against them by the West.
4303
Radwanska is only 13-11 this season, including a first-round loss on Wednesday in a clay-court tournament at Stuttgart, Germany.
4304
To meet those objectives, Solar Probe Plus will carry four instrument suites into the corona and study the solar wind and energetic particles as they blast off the surface of the star.
4305
Tragic: Sarah Owen, 21, pictured, was attacked by her boyfriend Preston Wright, 23, with a knife, then turned the weapon on himself at a house in Norman, Oklahoma .
4306
Police in Western Australia have come under fire after reports emerged that hundreds of officers unlawfully accessed information relating to the arrests of fallen AFL star Ben Cousins (pictured on April 9)
4307
Chaddah (top) attacks Mr Paton in the footage which cleared Mr Paton of any wrongdoing .
William Beardmore, prosecuting, said: 'It was a tissue of lies.'
4308
Newcastle supporters have been encouraged to stand up   in protest against Mike Ashley’s running of the club when they face Swansea at St James’ Park on Saturday.
4309
Appearing under a fictional name to remain anonymous, Chef Jacques LaMerde - which roughly translates to 'jack sh--' - the account pokes fun at high-end dining by dressing up cheap, fattening, convenience store goods to look like fancy gastronomic creations.
4310
Another former world champion, Shaun Murphy, was made to work hard for his place in the third round, coming from 3-2 down to see off Anthony McGill 5-4.
4311
Franck Ribery says his relationship with Louis van Gaal was 'poisoned' at Bayern Munich and claims the current Manchester United coach is a 'bad man' who loses players' trust.
4312
Jose Mourinho has targeted five wins and one draw in the remaining eight games and Hazard is optimistic Chelsea will win a first Premier League title in five years.
4313
'By flashing its LED lights hundreds of times per second, Apple Watch can calculate the number of times the heart beats each minute - your heart rate.'
4314
Indian Creek Island Road, the most exclusive area in Miami, boasts a median house price of $21.48million, and has topped the list of America's richest streets, compiled by Zillow.
4315
Lucia Morejon, the heartbroken mother of a unarmed teen who was shot dead by police has revealed the last words her son, Hector Morejon, 19, spoke as he lay dying in an ambulance .
4316
Leeds' sporting director Nicola Salerno has resigned, the club's disqualified owner Massimo Cellino is reported to have confirmed.
4317
Chastain and her boyfriend, Gian Luca Passi de Preposulo, spent $5.1 million on an apartment that features four bedrooms and 3.5 bathrooms, Daily Mail Online reported early last month.
4318
The 18-carat gold Irish Freedom Box was given to the aristocrat, who was by then Marquess of Anglesey, in 1828 by Trinity College Dublin when he served as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland .
4319
Arsenal captain Mikel Arteta is confident it will take just 'five minutes' to put the finishing touches to a contract extension once he is fully fit and back in the squad.
4320
Newcastle Crown Court (pictured) heard mother-of-two Christine Lillico, 47 was supposed to look after her elderly parents' bank accounts - but instead stole almost £80,000 from them over a six year period .
4321
Suddenly, the second plane crashed into the lead, pinning one skydiver in between the two aircraft.
The situation became deadly when leaking fuel ignited.
4322
The RSPCA were called in to rescue the 15.2 hands cob abandoned in a field in Swansea, South Wales, three years ago .
4323
Sir Bruce Forsyth has spoken out in favour of assisted dying, saying that watching his first wife suffer with dementia has convinced him he wants to 'die with a bit of dignity left'.
4324
Saracens flanker Jacques Burger has been cited for alleged foul play during last Sunday's European Champions Cup quarter-final game against Racing Metro in Paris.
4325
The 19-year-old said it was a 'difficult decision' to retire from cricket at such a young age .
'This was a difficult decision to make,' the 19-year-old said.
4326
In today’s new picture, apparently taken in London  during this two-day party session, Tomlinson appears to be smiling as he balances a magazine on his lap, smiling distractedly at a girl by his side as he prepares the suspicious cigarette.
4327
'Both teams have very good players and both managers like to play an attacking system so I hope (for a good game for) the fans, for whom you play, and after that I hope we can win.'
4328
The CHP became aware of the woman after someone called 911 to report there was an erratic driver in a black SUV on a freeway in Orange County around 12:30pm Wednesday.
4329
The famous building was illuminated with an image of one of McCoy's finest moments – winning the world famous Grand National on Don't Push It in 2010 – together with the words 'The Greatest Jockey. The Greatest Race.'
4330
A Melbourne based couple learnt this the hard way after a crowdfunding page they launched received a baffling pledge for over $2 billion.
4331
Called face landmarks, they are a series of specifically detailed points on a face; typically points of face components like the pupils, canthus or nose.
4332
Abraham Lincoln (left) was shot in Ford's Theatre in Washington D.C. on April 14, 1865 by pro-Confederacy actor, John Wilkes Booth (right). Lincoln died from his injuries the next day .
4333
The falsely labelled bread has generated an income of around $300 million over three years before former premier Jeff Kennett found that the some of the bread that was advertised as fresh was actually made in Ireland the Sydney Morning Herald reported.
4334
And when Chesterfield High School in Crosby, Merseyside, stopped the payments in 2011, he attempted to sue them, claiming discrimination because of his 'philosophical belief' in public service.
4335
A 73-year-old former soldier has been charged over the death of a man with learning difficulties in Northern Ireland more than 40 years ago.
4336
Dr Adrian McGoldrick, chief medical officer of the Irish Turf Club issued a statement on behalf of Condon which read: 'Davy Condon suffered a spinal injury in a fall during the Grand National at Aintree.
4337
The $2 billion Fiona Stanley Hospital in southwest Perth was stripped of its medical service provider Serco after they failed to return sterilising equipment by an arranged date in February.
4338
Celtic striker Leigh Griffiths was caught on camera enjoying a biscuit during their match at St Mirren .
Part of a footballer's healthy diet.'
4339
Manchester City forward Sergio Aguero celebrates his goal in Argentina's 2-1 win on Tuesday night .
Scorers: Aguero 8; Pastore 58 .
Scorer: Bolanos 24 .
4340
At least three people poured gasoline on a car and lit it on fire at a South Los Angeles gas station .
Surveillance video of the incident is being used in the investigation.
4341
The episode raises questions about whether the 29-year-old was brought back too early for England’s title-decider against France, having been knocked out in the Test against Italy five weeks earlier following a crunching collision with Andrea Masi.
4342
He then climbs up balancing his paws on the raised seat cover as he holds himself up and hovers over the toilet while relieving himself.
4343
The plane began to plunge after it was struck by lightning, but autopilot ignored the pilot’s commands to climb and tried to crash the plane into the sea.
4344
Air crash investigators examining a computer belonging to Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz are trying to determine whether the killer 'spiked' his captain's drink to force him into the toilet.
4345
Cambridgeshire Police and Peterborough City Council launched a ‘victim-led’ inquiry after identifying a number of young people who might have been at risk of sexual exploitation towards the end of 2012.
4346
Steven Howie (pictured) left his girlfriend with 18 injuries after assaulting her over a period of an hour in the room at a lonely inn on New Year's Eve .
4347
Kathy Hughes, 12, said she is 'downright proud' of her father, who was arrested after landing his gyrocopter on the West lawn of the U.S. Capitol last week to protest corruption in Congress .
4348
'In the study of our virtual water landing experience, we had one group of people study a traditional airline safety card and another group playing the virtual reality game,' added Chittaro.
4349
Joe Root 'wasn't a massive fan' after the first time he faced now team-mate James Anderson .
‘I’ll never forget the first time I came across Jimmy, early in the 2011 season,’ said Root.
4350
Royal Mail spokeswoman Val Bodden said: ‘Adam is a great entertainer, who brightens up our customers' day as he delivers their mail.’ ‘
4351
Brent Council said it was no longer able to afford to pay for a live-in carer to stay with the 96-year-old former prisoner of war, despite the fact that Mr Clark spent his £50,000 life savings on contributing to his care.
4352
Troy University students Delonte' Martistee, 22, of Georgia and Ryan Austin Calhoun, 23, of Alabama were charged on Friday with sexual battery by multiple perpetrators relating to the incident that occurred between March 10-12, according to Bay County Sheriff's Office.
4353
The emerald green, diamond encrusted belt was unveiled by World Boxing Council president Mauricio Sulaiman who was joined by former world heavyweight champion Larry Holmes.
4354
8.
James Anderson become England's record Test wicket-taker with his 384th scalp against the West Indies, surpassing Sir Ian Botham's mark.
4355
So, what of Manchester City?
Liverpool play West Brom, Hull, QPR, Chelsea, Crystal Palace and Stoke, as well as an FA Cup semi-final against Aston Villa.
4356
Tickets to watch Sir Bradley Wiggins attempt to break the UCI Hour Record at the Lee Valley VeloPark on June 7 will go on sale to the general public through Sky Tickets from Friday, April 19 (10am) price £49, £39 and £29, on line sale only through the Sky Tickets website.
4357
Noah's very public appearance with New York Jewish comedy royalty comes not long after he was accused of anti-Semitism in the wake of his surprise promotion to Daily Show host.
4358
The body parts of Becky Watts, 16, were found at house in Bristol on March 2 and police charged her stepbrother, Nathan Matthews, 28, with murder .
4359
A part-time worker had the shock of her life after she was ordered to pay more three quadrillion pounds in pension contributions.
4360
The fifth Bond film may well have been called You Only Live Twice but in Daniel Craig's most recent outing as Bond he should have died at least three times, according to the medical experts.
4361
Residents of rural towns like Cumnock, Errowanbang and Molong in NSW and Wicheproof in Victoria hope the bargain rentals will entice families with young children who can help populate their schools, save the local bus run and keep businesses open.
4362
From his home in Jacksonville, Arkansas, Ariana's father Bryant Stanfield, 43, said his face hurt from non-stop smiling since his daughter scooped the Miss Japan award from a line up of more 'typical' looking Japanese women earlier this month.
4363
Actor Ryan Reynolds was the victim of a hit-and-run in a hotel parking lot, according to his publicist and Vancouver police.
Ryan is okay.'
4364
Aurora movie theater shooter James Holmes studied brain disorders as a doctoral student before he killed 12 people and injured 70 more in one of America's deadliest mass shootings .
4365
Over half (161) of his Madrid goals have been scored at the Santiago Bernabeu and he has also found the net 60 times in the Champions League for the club.
4366
Two college campus police officers in Dallas have been placed on administrative leave after shocking video footage surfaced of them harassing a group of four students and arresting one after first hitting him.
4367
Right back Hector Bellerin gave Arsenal the lead with a superb left-foot curling into the corner to get things going at the Emirates Stadium .
4368
In September 1995 they knocked a United side containing the likes of David Beckham, Paul Scholes and Roy Keane, out of the UEFA Cup at the first round stage.
4369
Harvard was finally stopped at an exit in Kittanning, and has since been charged with simple assault, aggravated assault, reckless endangerment, and DUI .
4370
296mg .
Carbs: 53g .
Calories: 808 .
Calories: 244 .
Sodium: 600mg .
Sodium: 296mg .
Carbs: 53g .
Sodium: 451mg .
Calories: 808 .
Carbs: 53g .
4371
Oldham Athletic have signed Ronaldo.
Oldham's newest signing also has a younger sister called Trezeguet, named after the former French striker .
4372
Sandie Konopelski of Shiloh was struck by a westbound commuter train on the tracks between Swansea and Belleville on Friday morning.
4373
Ms McKenzie was one of around 140 brides who received the same ‘generic’ email informing them their dream dresses may not be coming, some of them with their weddings only weeks away.
4374
Footage taken in Manchester Airport, pictured, shows passengers becoming frustrated with airport staff after the events in Birmingham caused a knock-on delay to the aircraft's return flight to Doha .
4375
As well as keeping alive hopes of an unlikely charge to the Premier League title, victory for Arsenal at Turf Moor on Saturday will also ensure Arsene Wenger's men claim the longest winning streak in the top-flight this season.
4376
He has now written an open letter (above) to his local authority, South Gloucestershire, begging them to take the issue more seriously asking if a young person has to die before the problem is addressed .
4377
One of the walls earmarked for demolition by the pop star is between his lounge and home cinema.
One of the walls earmarked for demolition is between his lounge and home cinema .
4378
More than 60,000 people have joined memorial pages for Stephanie Scott on social media as the nation mourns her tragic murder .
4379
Newcastle owner Mike Ashley has been warned he risks creating a lost generation of supporters if he fails to invest in the club.
4380
So, what more do you need to know?
22?
Kondogbia is only 22 but has racked up over 100 league appearances with Lens (above), Sevilla and Monaco .
Exactly.
4381
Former Premier League referee Mark Halsey has slammed the FA’s decision to put Jon Moss in charge of the FA Cup final instead of Mark Clattenburg.
4382
A man has been rescued twice in the same night after falling backwards off a boat dock for a second time when emergency services took their eyes off him.
4383
Mid-range: Wills Domain Semillon Sauvignon Blanc (Australia) RRP$17.80 .
Mid-range: Peter Yealands Marlborough Sauvignon Blanc (NZ) RRP$12.50 .
4384
West Ham United manager Sam Allardyce believes his squad are unable to deal with the rigours of a full Barclays Premier League season after they dropped points by conceding late against Stoke City.
4385
The woman who owned the car jumped onto the bonnet of her white Honda as the teenage carjacker attempted to drive off at speed from the Fast Track Car Wash in Smyrna, Georgia.
4386
Ms Hollis's six-year-old daughter Olivia has been a huge help in her recovery as well as her boyfriend Michael Dennis, 27, has supported the pair after Olivia's father left shortly after Ms Hollis found out she was pregnant.
4387
'It is difficult to know whether you want to go back in again, but if the right offer came along for the right job then I would consider it, because I do love the game and certainly do miss it,' Redknapp said.
4388
Barway, who was a student at Evergreen Park World Cultures Community School, was last seen after school last month.
I have nothing to do with Barway's missing.'
4389
Ronald Anderson, 48, was arrested after he kidnapped a woman, shot a Census Bureau guard and led police on a car chase on before authorities cornered him in an exchange of gunfire that left the suspect and a police officer wounded .
4390
Diego Simeone has admitted his surprise at the fact there are no English clubs left in Europe as he prepares Atletico Madrid for their Champions League quarter-final second leg.
4391
Dana White called me after the Luke Rockhold fight and told me the reason I was losing fights is because I’m consistently fighting the best guys in the world – not everyone can say that.
4392
The National Trust has replaced antique furniture with beanbags in the library of Ickworth House, Suffolk .
The National Trust said the beanbag experiment was 'short-term'
4393
A New York City bus driver running a route in Queens is facing possible termination after an unidentified commuter recorded him driving with papers in his hand .
4394
Mick Schumacher made his pre-season test debut in Formula 4 at the Oschersleben circuit in Germany - but at one point was pictured accidentally driving through gravel.
4395
Ricky Gervais has led an online charge against 'trophy hunters' after posting a picture of an Extreme Huntress winner lying next to a dead giraffe and smiling.
4396
Sufyan Ismail, Mend's chief executive, was said to have claimed to be able to influence up to 30 seats during a talk at the Zakariyya Central Mosque in Bolton.
4397
Australian homeowners are making room in their backyards to allow budget travellers to pitch a tent and stay for a few nights.
4398
The 25-year-old is very much a key part of Manchester United's defence under Louis van Gaal and is quickly establishing himself as one of the best defenders in the country.
4399
Floyd Mayweather lacks class and does not act in the manner befitting a champion, according to Marvin Hagler.
'Mayweather can put you to sleep,' Hagler added.
4400
If future temperatures increase by only two degrees compared to pre-industrial levels, the extinction risk would increase from 2.8 to 5.2 per cent.
4401
Witnesses rushed over to the teenagers, both 17, after the accident and found Mr Maslow in huge amounts of pain.
Both Mr Maslow and Mr Polyakov were taken to hospital.
4402
The dual carriageway was shut for an hour  after the pensioner drove a red Peugeot towards Southend - but on the London-bound track .
Treatment:
4403
Real Madrid goalkeeper Iker Casillas is in line to equal Xavi's total in both Champions League games and knockout matches when Carlo Ancelotti's side take on Atletico in the second leg of their quarter-final on Wednesday night.
4404
We were tactically phenomenal, team spirit, team ethic, the way we defended, the way we were clinical with our goals, the stability we showed in every game.
4405
'John' who is reportedly a builder posted this advert in his local newsagents, it has since gone viral after it was spotted by a passer by .
4406
Far from a conventional toast, Mr Fraser performed a song which poked fun at the burdens of marriage.
Hey, you take the kids and take the dog for a run,' Mr Fraser sang.
4407
Mr Miliband said workers should be given the right after 12 weeks  to demand 'a regular contract if they do regular hours'.
4408
Lesbians4Hillary, co-chaired by pioneering tennis great Billie Jean King, said: 'Hillary Clinton is a proven leader and she has a strong track record when it comes to inclusion -- specifically for women and the LGBTQ community.
4409
The Devon tradition is to slather the scone with cream first, while the Cornish – who also lay claim to inventing cream teas – prepare their scones the opposite way.
4410
Photos of the visit, during which he presented some members with replica United jerseys, were posted on the International Judo Federation's official Twitter account alongside a flashback picture of Smalling as a youngster.
4411
Elsewhere on the Balearic Island of Majorca, the Spanish royal family attend a traditional Easter Mass at the Cathedral in Palma de Mallorca.
4412
Kangaroos are pets too: Crash hanging with the family dog (left) and Wally watching TV with the cat (right) Crash going on a road trip with the Wills family (left) and Wally the wallaby taking a nap with his cat friend .
4413
Hamilton's Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg was third six-tenths of a second behind Hamilton .
I don’t think about it in terms of me getting under his skin or him getting under mine.
4414
Eramo said the article falsely said she tried to discourage victim 'Jackie' (left) from reporting or discussing the alleged assault.
4415
Hagon admitted drink-driving and causing serious injury by dangerous driving and was jailed for two years eight months at Chelmsford Crown Court (pictured)
4416
I still can't believe it happened.'
The fatally-wounded man, who is being held by his neck and back by the deputies (pictured), says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
4417
Property developers are expected to pay millions for this house which was made available last week after police evicted a 65-year-old hoarder and removed her mother's five-year-old mummified corpse .
4418
Mrs Clinton will hit the campaign trail again today in New Hampshire, where she'll hold a round table at a family-owned business this afternoon.
4419
The extra-time hero as he scored his second of the game to ease Hibs past Falkirk 4-3 at this stage of the Scottish Cup two years ago, Griffiths also opened the scoring for Celtic against Rangers in the League Cup semi earlier this season.
4420
'I don't feel as harsh as I did at the time because he's my team-mate now, but at the time he was on the opposite team, a team that we played that was pretty good and we battled with them a couple times, and I didn't really like that team.'
4421
Gary Hooper came off the bench to snatch a dramatic stoppage-time winner to keep Norwich City on track for automatic promotion in the Sky Bet Championship after Neil Lennon's battling Bolton came within minutes of gaining a point.
4422
Mr Cameron, in a separate interview with the Sunday Times, said Ivan was a 'blessing in lots of ways' but admitted the strains he created on their life left them both 'falling apart'.
4423
A terrifying scene then unfolded, with the driver of the car allegedly climbing out of the smashed vehicle and stabbing a 50-year-old man to death.
4424
Kick It Out has welcomed the successful prosecution of a supporter who racially abused former Wales goalkeeper Jason Brown and sought to answer the player's criticism over the way the incident was handled.
4425
Ingredients .
Method: Heat the oil in a large non-stick frying pan, add the onions and garlic, and cook over a low heat for three minutes.
4426
'I've not seen it yet, but going by the reaction of the Celtic players we got away with a penalty and a sending off and that was probably the turning point in the game,' acknowledged Caley manager John Hughes after.
4427
Built in 1927, The Variety Theater was home to one of the earliest single screen cinemas in Cleveland, Ohio, before becoming an iconic music venue .
4428
The United defence looked at sixes and sevens as David de Gea fumes after conceding an early goal to their City rivals .
For 10 minutes, City were excellent.
4429
Finch took the 9mm pistol he'd recently purchased on Craigslist out behind Organica Herb & Tea Co., which he operates with his girlfriend, and 'fired 8 shots into the computer,' according to city police, 'effectively disabling it.'
4430
Narcocon, a Church of Scientology-affiliated drug rehab network, is trying to prove that a patch of land near Camp David is historic enough so that they can build a center for twelve patients .
4431
He scored his second goal for the club against Liverpool on Saturday and is also improving defensively, with Arsene Wenger praising his contribution.
4432
Nine members of the Liana's Ransom were scooped up by Coast Guard life boats on Tuesday, leaving the Canadian charter ship adrift 30 miles east of Portland, Coast Guard officials said.
4433
The exotic dancers had been hired by Mrs Jian, from Taiwan, who said she booked them to perform at her husband’s funeral as her last gift to him .
4434
A North Yorkshire Police spokesman said: ‘North Yorkshire Police has now completed its routine enquiries following the incident at Hawes involving Mr Jeremy Clarkson, and we will not be pursuing this matter any further.
4435
’ Grealish, who wears children’s shinpads and socks rolled down, won two free-kicks for his team through dribbling with the ball.
4436
Wiggins did his best, breaking away with 32 kilometres left to shake things up at the head of the peloton, while he also made a late push, but in the end he had to settle for a place down the line in 18th as Degenkolb took the glory.
4437
Amanda Murphy's mother, Tammy Langlois, and Murphy's sister, Ashley Murphy, cry after speaking about the moment they learned of the accident that killed Murphy, her unborn child, and her fiancee, Jason Timmons, during Robert Dellinger's sentencing  on Wednesday .
4438
Murray watches his brother in action  at Wimbledon in 2007 alongside Sears and Carlos Mier (right), who will be one of Murray's three best men .
4439
It was a day I have often tried to forget, but it was the one I must always remember.
Thirty years on we try to forget but we must always remember.
4440
Eckersley begun his career at the Red Devils but after failing to make an impact in Manchester, he rejected the offer of a new contract and signed for Premier League newcomers Burnley.
4441
It said lavatory waste is contained in a holding tank until a plane lands, and the apparatus to access the tank is located on the exterior of the plane.
4442
Alexandra dyed her hair black to cement her claim of being ‘The Romanian Kim Kardashian’ ‘In Romania women are supposed to be very thin, they're supposed to not have curves.
4443
Queens Park Rangers manager Chris Ramsey has revealed he will have no problem shaking John Terry’s hand in light of the racist comments the former England captain directed at former Rs defender Anton Ferdinand four years ago.
4444
Superior Court Judge Ronald Coen ruled Thursday that there was enough evidence for Knight, 49, to stand trial on charges he killed Terry Carter and attempted to kill Sloan during a parking lot confrontation.
4445
Killed: Larry Tipton, left,  fatally shot his ex-girlfriend, 21-year-old Rebecca Eldemire, right, before taking his own life in her off-campus apartment in Oxford, Ohio on Sunday morning .
4446
Revenge?
Archie Brown Sr. identified his son, father-of-four Archie Brown Jr., as the driver who was shot in the head and killed at the scene .
4447
The Bionic Bar is among many hi-tech gimmicks on board the 4,180-passenger Anthem Of The Seas, Royal Caribbean's second Quantum-class liner, which last week set sail on its maiden voyage.
4448
Hicks is charged with three counts of first-degree murder in the February 10 killings of 23-year-old Deah Shaddy Barakat; his wife, 21-year-old Yusor Mohammad Abu-Salha; and her sister, 19-year-old Razan Mohammad Abu-Salha.
4449
Appeal for calm: Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, was on lockdown after one person was shot in the library, said Daniel Wiggins, assistant operations manager for Wayne County .
4450
Wayne Rooney wants to put a smile back on the faces of Manchester United fans by claiming victory in Sunday's derby against City at Old Trafford.
4451
Alaba, out for three months earlier this season after a partial ligament tear in his right knee, was injured while playing for Austria in their 1-1 draw against Bosnia on Tuesday.
4452
After waiting and waiting for Floyd Mayweather, Amir Khan could be set to face Manny Pacquiao .
He’s world lightweight champion and he’s fought at a far higher level than Frankie.
4453
Both men were arrested on April 17 in 2005.
Chan was intercepted at Denpasar airport along with Scott Rush, Michael Czugaj, Lawrence and Stephens who had heroin strapped to their stomach and legs, while Sukumaran was found at the Melasti Beach Bungalows hotel on Kuta Beach with Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen, Si Yi Chen and Norman.
Both men were arrested on April 17 in 2005.
Renae Lawrence is the only Bali Nine member who was given a reduced sentence of 20 years.
4454
But when Daisy was born, Ms Davis and her partner Andrew Smith, 31, were told she had the rare disorder Anophthalmia, meaning she had no eyes.
4455
The study found 38 per cent of SSRI users did not meet the criteria for obsessive compulsive disorder, panic disorder, social phobia or generalized anxiety disorder or clinical depression (file photo)
4456
VERDICT: GUILTY of violation of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act .
VERDICT: GUILTY of violation of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
4457
Diane McLean says she's been overwhelmed by the generosity of her friends, neighbors and strangers after her four-bedroom rent-stabilized apartment at 45 East Seventh Street went up in flames.
4458
Thousands of children who fail maths and English tests in primary school will be forced by the Tories to re-sit them to ensure they can read, write and add up (file picture)
4459
$
Floyd Mayweather adds a 2016 Mercedes-Maybach S600, which cost $210,000, to his collection of sports cars .
2016 Mercedes-Maybach S600.
$210,000.00.'
4460
A winning goal in an FA Cup semi-final against Manchester United in 2011 was followed by another, against Stoke City, in the final.
4461
Usain Bolt says Tyson Gay should have been given a longer ban for drugs cheating, and branded the decision to shorten his punishment 'the stupidest thing I've ever heard'.
4462
The company said at its annual Build conference on Wednesday that it will release new programming tools for software developers to rapidly adapt their Apple and Android apps to run on devices that use the new Windows 10 operating system coming late this year.
4463
A fund-raising drive to help keep one of the country's oldest war veterans in his own home after a London council refused to pay for his ongoing care has reached £10,000 in just four days.
4464
A 16-year-old schoolboy is warning classmates to avoid the 'Kylie Jenner' challenge after being left with a bruised face when he sucked into a glass to emulate the Kardashians star's bee-stung pout.
4465
Scientists have shown that peacocks (stock image) shake their tails to make a noise that is too low for us to hear .
,’ Mr Persons said.
4466
A royal spokesman announced that the second in line to the throne had completed his latest stage of his training as a pilot with East Anglia Air Ambulance (EAAA) ‘earlier than expected’ - and would not be required to embark on the final stage until June 1.
4467
Her decision marks a change from February, when HSBC’s annual report said that despite having been on the board since 2004, Mrs Fairhead would again stand for re-election.
4468
Images show the vast sandstorm sweeping its way across Saudi Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates and reaching as far east as India and Pakistan over a period of seven days.
4469
The stations include Jesus carrying the cross, Jesus being nailed to the cross and Jesus being placed in the tomb .
Participants make their way through Ashtabula.
4470
Use in the UK:
Britain's police forces use a short-barrelled version of the weapon known as the G36C – and have a total arsenal of up to 3,000.
4471
Kim Richards is speaking out for the first time since her shocking arrest last week following a drunken altercation at The Beverly Hills Hotel.
4472
Two sisters from Oklahoma and Nebraska missing for nearly two weeks in Michigan survived on Girl Scout cookies while stuck in their snow-trapped SUV until state police discovered them Friday near Lake Superior in a remote part of the Upper Peninsula.
4473
Major General Michael Gambier-Parry, of the 2nd Armoured Division, was captured with 2,000 of his men by Rommel in Mechili, Libya, in 1941.
4474
Visit site .
Depsite being a toyboy, Taylor-Johnson says friends liken him to Brad Pitt's character in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, in which Pitt ages in reverse .
Taylor-Johnson says he fell in love with Sam, the most commercially successful female film-maker in history after she directed Fifty Shades of Grey, which was released in February, on the first day they met on the set of Nowhere Boy in 2009.
4475
'This sucks.
This absolutely sucks.'
Visit site .
Shwood Canby Wayfarer Sunglasses at Zappos .
Visit site .
Forever 21 Metallic Tortoise Wayfarer Sunglasses .
4476
But Knut Slinning, owner of Juvet Landscape Hotel, said he had no plans to stop serving whale meat because it has been eaten for ‘many hundreds of years’.
4477
Though Monday's reported appearance is his first in public since a landmark deal to reestablish ties between the US and Cuba, Castro met with spies released by the US in the agreement earlier this year .
4478
The eight-year-old girl who died in a horrific accident in New South Wales has been identified as a nine-year-old boy continues to fight for his life following the two-car collision on New South Wales' Central Coast.
4479
Spencer Gerlach, 20, told police that he and his ex-wife Keltsie Gerlach were having a dispute on Wednesday afternoon that escalated into murder.
4480
Virgil van Dijk has been in fine form for Celtic but wasn't rewarded with a call-up to the Holland national team .
‘But the day I knew I was getting a week off was a better day, I think.
4481
And defender Mauricio managed to capture the celebrations of the Lazio supporters using a selfie stick after they secured their progression.
4482
The master bedroom suite includes a contemporary king-sized four poster bed, and a tapestry from her spring/summer 2001 collection, Exploration.
4483
The son of the Sultan of Brunei, one of the world's richest men, has wed bride Dayangku Raabi'atul 'Adawiyyah Pengiran Haji Bolkiah in a spectacular ceremony at the monarch's 1,788-room palace in Brunei's capital, Bandar Seri Begawan.
4484
Anthony Ray Hinton, pictured this week, spent nearly 30 years on Alabama's death row but will be freed Friday morning after prosecutors told a judge they won't re-try him for two slayings .
4485
Oddly, it was only an injury that prevented the Belgian joining Napoli in loan last August but again Van Gaal’s treatment of Fellaini has illustrated the value of flexibility and objectivity when it comes to managing players and teams.
4486
LA Galaxy (4-5-1): Penedo; Gargan (Meyer 86 mins), Gonzalez, De La Garza, Rogers; Ishizaki, Garcia, Husidic (Villarreal 83), Juninho, Zardes; Gordon.
4487
The video links to Shona Banda's GoFundMe page, which is raising money for the Kansas mother's legal defense; her 11-year-old son was taken away from her for discussing medical marijuana .
4488
Scott Suggs (left), 28, and Brandy Kangas (right), 36, have been sentenced for child neglect after admitting to locking their three children in a room with urine and feces - and feeding them through a gate .
4489
Screaming and raging:
The officer was named by the New York Daily News as Detective Patrick Cherry of the NYPD's Joint Terrorism Task Force.
4490
And in a third of Wegner's incredible images taken in 1915, a band of Armenian deportees, including a woman carrying a baby, children and elderly men, stagger through the desert along an unpaved road in the blazing suns towards their hellish new lives as refugees.
4491
The Chelsea captain rises above Bobby Zamora to head the ball away as he dominated at the back .
The former England captain was rarely troubled by Bobby Zamora and Charlie Austin.
4492
The app, called Eaze, has been dubbed ‘Uber for weed’ and enables people to choose medical grade marijuana and have it delivered by a vetted driver – providing they live in one of the US states where the drug is legal.
4493
The move could herald a new wave of services moving to the internet - but Mr Postgate insisted that other channels will remain on broadcast TV for the time being, saying: 'BBC Three was a brand that you could move from one platform to another relatively easily.'
4494
Others include the Twelve Apostles along the Great Ocean Road in Victoria, Uluru which is also known as Ayers Rock in the Northern Territory and the Big Banana in Coffs Harbour, which is in the north coast of New South Wales.
4495
Rory McIlroy will tee off his bid to become just the sixth man to win golf's Grand Slam alongside Phil Mickelson and Ryan Moore at Augusta National on Thursday.
4496
Hartson was diagnosed with testicular cancer which had spread to his brain and lungs in 2009, at age of 33.
That’s my life now and I love it.'
4497
Hundreds of fans paid £15 a ticket to watch Clarkson oversee the auction at Chipping Norton town Hall.
He was accused of punching producer Oisin Tymon following a day's filming.
4498
Someone who tells their insurer they are a 21-year-old dental nurse is likely to get car insurance for 10 per cent less than they would have done in 2011, he said.
4499
The 23-year-old Taylor was awaiting sentencing for the June 2013 murder of Nelson Williams Jr, 21 (right), when authorities say he beat a guard unconscious, took his keys and uniform and sped off in his SUV .
4500
The book, which told of the life and loves of an angst-ridden teenager, was followed by seven sequels, selling in total more than eight million copies.
4501
Hull, Leicester and Swansea City are following Poland international winger Maciej Rybus.
Rybus impressed during Poland's 1-1 draw with Republic of Ireland in Dublin last month .
4502
In the past, teratomas have been reported to contain hair, teeth, bone and rarely more complex organs including eyes, hands, feet and limbs.
4503
'Hello, Lena.
Another message (pictured), this time from a man named Dmitry (right), referred to homosexuals as 'libidinous f****** perverts'
4504
When I was still at Hibs earlier this season, we played them in the League Cup and they were a very good side.
I’m sure they will enjoy this one for a long time to come.’
4505
Amol Gupta (not pictured), from Manhattan, is suing ZogSports kickball league claiming that during a match two years ago he ran into a brick wall, breaking his nose and elbow .
4506
Just sixty four days after the first defence of his IBF belt against Jo Dan, Brook will return to action on a packed pay-per-view show on May 30 at the O2 in London.
Brook (left) was back in action as he beat Jo Dan for the IBF World Welterweight title in Sheffield last month .
4507
A press conference at Tent City came to an abrupt end when reporters asked the sheriff to compare the $200,000 meat-free savings to the $14 million the agency is spending to comply with a court order that found sheriff's deputies discriminated against Latino residents.
4508
Extremely intoxicated: Britney E. Montenegro, 20, was charged with disorderly conduct in Orlando, Florida, early Saturday after getting involved in a fight .
4509
The original red notebook (pictured) in which Princess (later Queen) Victoria wrote her story as part of her studies with her governess, Baroness Louise Lehzen, has been kept in the Royal Archives at Windsor Castle .
4510
They want to play at the top level of the game and if you’re not in the Champions League it makes it difficult for you.
We want to be in the Champions League.
4511
Sienna says that being with Tom and having their daughter Marlowe - born in 2012 - has changed her life .
I like to cook and go to Whole Foods.
4512
The 26-year-old, from Bristol (pictured left and right) spent at least £40 a week buying new Calvin Klein boxers so that he could slip into a brand new 'crisp pair' every day of the week .
4513
'The paramedic area support officer commented that, if the impact had have been a couple of inches further across into the driver's side or if there had been a passenger in the car, the outcome would've certainly been fatal.'
4514
Earthquakes can be caused by injecting fluid into the subsurface or by extracting fluids at a rate that causes subsidence and slippage along planes of weakness in the Earth.
4515
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon today refused to rule out demanding a re-run within the next five years, prompting opponents to claim she had 'broken a promise the size of Ben Nevis'
4516
Pep Guardiola believes he has one of the world's best central defenders in Jerome Boateng as he faces up to an injury crisis ahead of Wednesday's German Cup quarter-final.
4517
If you want to be a top athlete you don’t want that in your body.
Grealish starred for Aston Villa in their FA Cup semi-final win over Liverpool on Sunday at Wembley .
4518
Ms Weatherill's 24-a-day habit meant she was drinking 1.92g of caffeine every day.
'I am convinced I won't have another can.
4519
Clermont's  Wesley Fofana runs with the ball during the European Rugby Champions Cup match .
'We were well beaten.
'We didn't do that and so were well beaten.
4520
Paris St Germain coach Laurent Blanc accepts his side face an almost impossible mission trying to turn around their Champions League quarter-final against Barcelona at the Camp Nou on Tuesday.
4521
Brain stimulation equipment still remains relatively new and experimental and Dr Martin warns parents against using it on their children .
4522
Her Majesty also made her first, if unscheduled, appearance in a selfie in June when 14-year-old Jack Surgenor darted in for a cheeky snap during a walkabout in Belfast's St. George's Market.
4523
Continental Giants are the largest breed of rabbit and can grow to around 4ft when fully grown but Darius - who is officially four foot four inches long - and Jeff
4524
Inter Milan are prepared to offer Yaya Toure a five-year contract to lure him away from Manchester City this summer.
4525
The fossilised cone snail shells have bleached over time, like the one labelled A, but under ultraviolet light traces of pigment still in the shells are revealed, labelled B, allowing their colours to be reconstrcuted
4526
The survey by financial guide Money Advice Service found 45 per cent of Brion have lied about their earnings, spending and credit cars, and 41 per cent of people surveyed din't know how much their partner earned .
4527
UFC light-heavyweight Jon Jones is currently wanted as a suspect in connection with a hit-and-run accident on Sunday morning, amid reports police found marijuana in his car.
4528
However, despite his best efforts, the egg narrowly misses his jaw, bounces off his chest and hits the grass instead.
Good effort:
4529
Former sports minister Gerry Sutcliffe says new allegations surrounding the Bradford City fire in 1985 which claimed 56 lives do not justify a new inquiry into the disaster.
4530
The sister of a hairdresser who was stabbed to death with a pair of scissors, has revealed Leila Alavi was on a desperate mission to find a women's refuge to escape her estranged husband.
4531
Meanwhile, former Rangers starlet Lewis Macleod will almost certainly not kick a ball for Brentford this season after his £850,000 January move.
4532
Kurtes disallowed Williamson's penalty for encroachment from England players at the weekend, but instead of ordering her back to the spot, awarded a free-kick to Norway.
4533
Parents and students walk away from North Thurston High School on Monday after a 16-year-old student opened fire before classes at the school and was stopped by a teacher .
4534
For larger families, there is the villa option – 23 award-winning, independently owned properties, with three or four large bedrooms, a parking space, a BBQ area as well as easy access to the facilities and swimming pools.
4535
Teenagers will be encouraged to learn foreign languages by talking about tattoos, music festivals, YouTube and rap music under the latest GCSE shake-up .
4536
Memphis Depay had a secret meeting with Manchester United on Wednesday as the club look to tie up a move for the PSV Eindhoven winger.
4537
A baby on the way: Jessa Duggar announced she's expecting her first child with Ben Seewald, 19.
We are definitely excited to be parents.'
4538
But, only hours before the key election speech was due to be delivered, his own shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper (pictured) refused at least four times to say Labour would put a target on net immigration .
4539
Spectacular start:
 The dustbin lid-shaped species is harmless to humans but with the weather warming up experts say more could be heading our way .
4540
The passenger filming then says: ‘Wow, that was brilliant.
The passengers are amazed as they film the driver who sings along   to the opera song word perfectly .
4541
House prices across the UK will rise at a fraction of last year’s frenetic pace, forecasts show.
London will fare the worst, with prices actually dropping by 3.6 per cent over the next year, it is claimed.
File photo .
‘It has now started to pick up again outside London.
4542
Twenty four hours after Floyd Mayweather Jnr dazzled the media with his skills, Manny Pacquiao takes his turn.
4543
The ex Bon Jovi guitarist, 55, allegedly told former business partner Nikki Lund he would 'dig a hole in the desert and bury her', Daily Mail Online can exclusively reveal.
4544
Chelsea go into the weekend seven points clear of Arsenal having played a game less, but Cahill said there was no sense of easing up, with the Gunners still to come on the fixture list.
4545
Derby (4-4-2): Grant, Shotton, Keogh, Whitbread (Christie 27), Warnock, Hendrick, Hughes (Russell 79), Bryson (Dawkins 9), Ince, Bent, Lingard .
4546
The Pacers (38-43) have won six straight games and will make a fifth straight playoff appearance if they win at Memphis - or if Brooklyn loses to Orlando - on the final night of the regular season.
4547
This is the surreal moment a dog takes the reins and literally drags his owner out for a walk.
As the canine scampers along, his passenger holds tightly to a leash.
4548
Michelle, a 32-year-old mother who has asked for her surname not to be used, said the white van drove through a red light at about 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday and almost hit her vehicle.
4549
If you thought classic hot cross buns were bad, wait until you’re faced with 1030 kilojules of choc-chip hot cross bun- and that’s just for one!
4550
The 'Love Call' notices, posted on George Street at Australia Square in Sydney's CBD, are appealing to the man with 'the most beautiful smile' who was in the area about '7:10 pm-ish' on Tuesday evening.
4551
Like Zola, who arrived at Chelsea in 1996-97, Sanchez can end his first season with an FA Cup win and Arsene Wenger will stress the marginal gains if Arsenal can claim second in the Barclays Premier League for the first time in a decade.
4552
Jordan took a stunning slip catch off Tredwell to dismiss West Indies vice-captain Kraigg Brathwaite, who claimed after play that he thought Anderson ' looked tired'.
4553
McGinley, McIlroy's Ryder Cup-winning coach, says the world No 1 aims to be an iconic figure in world sport .
We won’t know the answer, but that’s his biggest challenge.’
4554
Blackburn Rovers manager Gary Bowyer has hit out at FA Cup rules which prevent him from fielding one of his own players against Liverpool in Wednesday night's sixth round replay at Ewood Park because he was on loan when the first tie was played on March 9.
4555
Ospina made his debut for Arsenal in a 2-1 defeat by Southampton in the third round of the Capital One Cup back in September and only made one further appearance in the Champions League before 2015.
4556
Emergency services were called to Stockwell station in south London this morning after a man sustained life-threatening head injuries while bending down to pick up his bag from the platform .
4557
An airport worker has been awarded $40 million in compensation for a freak runway accident which left him paralyzed from the waist down more than seven years ago .
4558
The son of Gerry Anderson, the brains behind the original Thunderbirds, has criticised the computer-generated remake for lacking the 'magic' of the classic show.
4559
Footage shows his head slowly dipping down before he suddenly wakes up and refocuses his energy on the screen.
One commenter added: 'What a sweet baby.
4560
Direct Assist, based in Bolton, Lancashire, told one complainant that they were likely to be called for three years until they made a claim, despite repeated requests for their details to be removed .
4561
Girlfriend Alex missed the crucial first sign with her name on but caught the second two which read: Will... you... Marry .
The next signs read Go To. Prom.
4562
Held since 1591, the fiesta attracts tens of thousands of foreign visitors each year for nine days of revelry, morning bull-runs and afternoon bullfights.
4563
In September last year Ava underwent the operation, which involved making an incision from ear to ear and removing her whole skull .
4564
A 39-year-old man allegedly impregnated his 17-year-old stepdaughter who gave birth alone at home while looking after her three-year-old sister, who then died in her care.
4565
Former Liverpool hero Jamie Carragher took advantage of the international break to jet out to Spain to watch his son play for the Under 12s in the Mediterranean International Cup.
4566
Mr Coppin, 32, spent this morning searching for Mr Matthews's car and found it safe and sound in an office car park in Salford Quays.
4567
The Syrian-born 48-year-old was lured to an upmarket street in London on the pretence of providing a quote for some building work.
4568
In a recent Q&A on the social media site, CEO and co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, opened up about the future of travel and how virtual reality will play a key role.
4569
Racing for a child: White women had the shortest spacing — about 2 years, 2 months on average wheras black and hispanic women typically waited 2½ years or longer .
4570
'Weatherford Police will investigate and potentially prosecute any individual that has picked up any of the loose money and not returned it to either Brinks or the Police Department.'
4571
Sandiford, 58, from Cheltenham, who is on death row, has told friends she 'wants to get it over with' Chan’s brother Michael told Sandiford in a text message sent last night that the execution has been scheduled for Tuesday evening.
4572
The targets of the operation were members of the nationalist groups Movement for the Defence of Wales (MAC) and the Free Wales Army (FWA) (pictured above)
4573
Passenger Jin Pai, 35, was standing on the rim of a toilet in Hefei Xinqiao International Airport in the city of Hefei, the capital city of eastern China's Anhui Province, when it smashed to the ground.
4574
However, technology has been developed where a drone could lock onto a pattern on a runner’s shirt in order to track their speed and direction (shown)
4575
But the antics of 15-year-old Marc and 17-year-old Jean Wabafiyebazu were brought to a sudden halt on March 30 when a drugs raid went wrong and the older brother was shot dead.
4576
Last year, two properties called Tom and Jerry went on the market in Sandbanks after being built on the same plot, just 10inches apart (pictured)
4577
Mr Cameron said that the SNP 'want to achieve the break-up of our country, so therefore if you have a Labour government backed by the SNP, you have got a government backed by people who don't want the country to succeed.
4578
Former All Blacks star Mils Muliaina was arrested on suspicion of sexual assault following Connacht's clash with Gloucester on Friday night - with TV cameras capturing the moment he was hauled away by police following the game.
4579
With the confirmation of Danilo's summer switch to Real Madrid, Porto have now received a whopping £440million from player sales in the last 11 years.
4580
She told the Daily Mail Online that her biological aunt, Julia, had told her children before she died that Violet had spent two months with a man in Montana while her husband was fighting.
4581
A holiday resort in Thailand has come under fire after it posted a picture online of drunken guests riding a baby elephant around its swimming pool.
4582
Moscow described Nato's supply of weapons to Ukrainian military (pictured) - who hope to defeat pro-Russian rebels in the east of the country - as a 'further encroachment' on the Russian border .
4583
Draw 14/5 .
Aston Villa have scored just six goals in their last 12 Premier League matches against Tottenham and never more than once in a game.
4584
Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg have again been reminded of their responsibilities to Mercedes after the team were forced to tackle head on the tension that rose between them in China on Sunday.
4585
Citing Marilyn Monroe as her ultimate postergirl, Rita, pictured judging on The Voice, explains that her style has evolved as a result of her transatlantic career .
4586
He talked about the history of Liverpool and Villa, seven FA Cups apiece, all the semi finals we've been in, and he talks about the club in a way the fans still see the club and a way we want people to see the club.
4587
In 2012, pub Karen Murphy landlady won a landmark legal battle to overturn her conviction for using foreign decoders instead of Sky to show Premier League football matches.
4588
The 72-year-old designed and built his own observatory in 1977 and now uses powerful telescopes to observe and photograph the solar system.
4589
Letizia was making her second appearance at an awards show in just two days, having spent Monday night handing out prizes at the Woman Awards.
4590
Footage of the hunt, which did not break the world record because they missed the deadline to apply, shows children as young as two being squashed by teenagers and adults weave between them picking up candy.
4591
April 25: Liverpool (home) May 2: Manchester United (away) May 9: Newcastle United (away)
'Brendan Rodgers knows what the Premier League is like.
4592
The Chancellor said Labour had ‘form’ on jacking up income tax and National Insurance and insisted Ed Balls and Ed Miliband would do the same if given the chance after May 7.
4593
Waheed Ahmed, the 21-year-old son of Labour Councillor Shakil Ahmed, is understood to be returning to the UK on a flight to Manchester from Dalaman tonight following his arrest for allegedly trying to sneak into Syria .
4594
A father has told how he's embraced 21st century parenting by using a drone to walk his eight-year-old daughter to school.
'I was like, "Oh wow,"' she said.
4595
The man decided to perform a procedure to remove the blood clot himself, rubbing snow on his leg as an anaesthetic .
Pain isn’t felt,’ he tells the camera.
4596
We've had an ale made from yeast grown in beard hair, a beer that features barley from the International Space Station, and a 67.5 per cent alcohol brew that comes with a warning tag.
4597
A Chinese villager who was desperate to become a grandfather has been arrested for buying a wife for his son, then reselling her to another family after realising she was infertile.
4598
She died of heart failure, with an official at her nursing home saying 'She went so peacefully' Misao Okawa, the 117-year-old who died on April 1, lived through the entire 20th century.
4599
Ms Kellie-Jones, right, wants to raise £16,000 for additional cooling machines to help save other babies .
'I didn't move from her side for hours.
4600
Thanks to the proliferation of social media, in order for modelling agencies to keep up with client demand, 'influencer' and 'blogger' divisions are now being added to their traditional model portfolio.
4601
Owners Helga and Eberhard Henkel (pictured with Simba) had lost their pet in early March and had looked everywhere - even hanging up notices in surrounding streets .
4602
He spent time in the High Risk Management Correctional Centre inside the Goulburn prison complex, where he was caught in 2002 trying to smuggle letters out via his visiting mother, Baria, to his then girlfriend.
4603
Manchester City have defended price hikes after some fans saw the cost of their season tickets almost double.
4604
Henyekane made nine appearances for South Africa in 2009.
The forward made nine appearances for South Africa in 2009 and played for Free State Stars this season .
4605
Some astrophysicists have suggested that magnetism might have been responsible for aligning and then binding together rocks into larger boulders during the early stages of planet formation.
4606
Abbey Road studios has hosted every major name in music in the last 80 years but because it is a working studio it has never been open to the public, despite receiving 500,000 visitors a year .
4607
Executive producer Brian True-May (left) described the show as the 'last bastion of Englishness' in 2011 because it had no black or Asian characters, pictured with John Nettles .
4608
O'Connor's time of two minutes 09:51 seconds was the fastest recorded in the world this year and came comfortably inside the World Championships qualification mark of 2:10:20.
4609
Surprisingly, the fighter recently claimed he had been a terror camp trainer whilst he was with Jabhat al-Nusra.
4610
Penny was remanded in custody to appear in the Melbourne Magistrates Court for a committal mention on July 6, and is expected to apply for bail on Monday afternoon .
4611
It comes after the principal of St Ignatius' College Riverview, Paul Hine, sent a letter to its old boys last month informing them a former student had made allegations of 'child sexual abuse over 30 years ago'
4612
Mr Davis, head chef at The Kitchen, was walking on Central Avenue to a parking garage when he was fatally struck by 25-year-old Jason Lanard Mitchell on Saturday around 2am, police said.
4613
A historic SpaceX launch that was set to take off today has been scrubbed due to bad weather.
But more bad weather is forecast.
4614
It was the last time British Tour de France winner Sir Bradley Wiggins would compete for Team Sky, and told their official site before the race it was a great way to finish.
4615
A 33-year-old woman on trial for having sex with a male inmate at Washington County Jail six times over four months while working as a services technician cried in court Wednesday as a judge rejected her request to use an insanity defense.
4616
Police are using tiny plastic Lego figures in a campaign to warn people about the rising tide of housebreakings in Scotland.
It’s a joke.
4617
A soldier examines the tunnel which already stretched some 500 feet from the property when it was discovered by Mexican soldiers .
4618
Bayern Munich coach Pep Guardiola says his team's injury situation is 'critical, very critical' ahead of the Bundesliga match against Eintracht Frankfurt and the Champions League quarter final game against FC Porto.
4619
Elena Udrea, 41, was investigated over claims during her time as the country's tourism minister that she had accepted bribes worth an estimated £1.3 million.
4620
Boca Juniors set up a mouthwatering Copa Libertadores last-16 clash with fierce rivals River Plate after a 2-0 victory over Palestino to finish Group Five with a 100 per cent winning record.
4621
'People want someone to look up to when it comes to the royals.
Chic: Kate in a £69 JoJo Maman Bebe maternity coat and, right, in a £35 ASOS polka-dot dress in March .
4622
The Gender Price Gap website aims to engage Australian women in the global conversation that is taking place around the 'pink tax' and encourage them to share their own experiences of the 'price gap' while seeing whether it's something they are interested in campaigning about.
4623
Commuter Amanda Curtis snapped the quadruple rainbow - made of two pairs next to each other - at the Glen Cove LIRR station outside of New York City .
4624
And the Duke and Duchess aren't the only royals to get a puppet makeover.
The real thing: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at the Stephen Lawrence Centre in south London .
4625
Rangers boss Stuart McCall insists he is taking life at Ibrox in his stride.
Stuart McCall insists he's loving life at Rangers despite losing heavily to Queen of the South .
4626
The family of a heavily pregnant Jehovah's Witness who died along with her baby after she refused a blood transfusion, have defended the woman who they said had put her baby's life above her own.
4627
Inter: Handonvic, Jesus, Vidic, Ranocchia, D'Ambrosio, Kovacic (Shaqiri 77), Medel, Gnoukouri (Obi 67), Hernanes, Palacio, Icardi .
4628
Tiger Woods showed up to the event at the Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, with his two children, Sam, 8, and Charlie, 6, and his girlfriend Lindsey Vonn, who was dressed in a floor-length, spaghetti strap gown, accessorized with diamonds and Louis Vuitton.
Visit site .
Bubba Watson's wife Angie, dressed in a white jumpsuit like her son, hands a golf club to her and Bubba's son Caleb .
4629
The 26-year-old West Ham striker suffered torn ligaments in his left knee during West Ham's 0-0 draw with Southampton and won't be available for the rest of the season.
4630
Karla Hornby said she thought she was going to die when she gave birth to baby Freddie, weighing just 2lbs, by emergency caesarean section while on holiday in Benidorm with her partner Jordan Jackson.
4631
They have provided 10 French winners with Henry, Anelka, Emmanuel Petit, Sylvain Wiltord, Robert Pires and Samir Nasri have all won it while in north London.
4632
The TV chef seen baring her back tattoo with pet cat Kimchi says: 'I’d love a really small cat tattoo either behind my ear or somewhere discreet'
4633
Select Amazon Prime customers will soon be given the option to have their goods delivered to the boot, or trunk, of their car without needing to be near the vehicle.
4634
Cassie was in her car picking up Brynn's son for preschool in Tenino, Washington, when she accidentally ran over Brynn's younger daughter, 17-month-old Rowyn, who was killed.
4635
The letter, dated May 7, 1912, was sent from White Star Lines to Christopher Moody, the brother of 24-year-old officer James Moody, who died after the Titanic hit an iceberg on its maiden voyage.
4636
Edwin Mee denies a series of sex offences which complainants claim took place when he worked as an Army recruitment sergeant in Croydon .
When asked why he was like this, he replied: 'If I felt they were trying to mess me about, if somebody missed an appointment.
But Mee denied her claims.
4637
Mr Shapps's own Wikipedia page was edited by Contribsx in March 2014 to shift the blame for a controversial tweet on the Budget to George Osborne and Lynton Crosby; the passage in question is pictured before and after the edit .
4638
Behind bars: Saad, 37, was recently sentenced to at least eight years in prison after pleading guilty to involuntary manslaughter .
4639
Since Tuesday, police were looking for Chiles III in connection to the killing 40-year-old Archie Brown Jr and 15-year-old Rasheed Chiles.
4640
The jury that sentenced Aaron Hernandez to life in prison on Wednesday want the world to know that they gave the ex-New England Patriots star a fair trial.
4641
Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander (right) snapped this selfie in front a little boy wearing a dark blue shirt with Verlander's name and jersey number, 35, on the back .
4642
Manchester United target Miranda has revealed his delight at being linked with a move to Louis van Gaal's side but insists he is keen on staying at Atletico Madrid.
4643
'We're being coached more and, building up to games, we're working on different formations, which players are going to play, movements, all different stuff, like most teams probably do.
4644
Chlorine gas — carried by favourable winds over Flanders Fields from German positions — sowed terror and agony for the first time on April 22, 1915.
4645
He then looks at his parents and shouts 'I got a job' as he rushes over to his dad and leaps into his arms as they embrace in a big hug.
4646
The black pooch was filmed in action as he took a rescue rope out to his owner at the Clarence J. Brown Dam and Reservoir in Springfield, Ohio, on Saturday afternoon.
4647
1. Jumper and matching shorts worn by Debbie Turner as Marta.
Jumper measures 11.5' across the chest, shorts measure 10' across the waist .
4648
George Clooney, who has recently purchased a £10million manor house with his barrister wife Amal (right) on an island in the Thames in Sonning, Berkshire, is also building a home cinema .
4649
The PacMan's shorts alone will carry sponsorship logos worth a total of $2.25m (£1.5m), reports the Manila Bulletin.
It's like being in a race.
4650
The witness said that before the November incident, Colina stood and glared at other gym users if they were using gym equipment he wanted.
4651
Pitt, 51, vowed to help ‘make it right’ for the city’s thousands of displaced citizens by building eco-friendly homes to replace the ones destroyed.
4652
Clair Schuler, who goes by the stage name Cici Ryder, (pictured) is a drag queen who was friends with Robert Durst when he was living as deaf, mute woman .
4653
A video Mr Abercrombie posted online shows him revving up the engine of his red Chevrolet Camero before powering forward, pulling his son's front tooth clean out.
4654
For the second time this year, the former England footballer is selling a multi-million pound property – leading to speculation he wants to dodge Labour’s mansion tax if the party wins the election.
4655
The New York Daily News reported Iona's stepson Costello Jr, 45, was visiting Hamptons Bay, New York, at the time, and relatives said he has never got on with the family.
4656
Alpha kangaroo Roger cuddles up to his new soft toy bunny while showing off his massive guns .
Mr Barnes rescued Roger in 2006 after finding his mother dead on a highway .
4657
'So is this why folks say they hate Monday's!!???' he wrote at the time.
'So is this why folks say they hate Monday's!!???' LeBron wrote with this image a fortnight ago .
4658
'People were outside looking around and everyone said "Stop, stop, stop" as she put her foot on the pavement.
'I said "stop, stop", but I couldn't stop her.
4659
As for Martin Allen and Barnet, they will land in Benidorm on Wednesday afternoon as Conference champions.
'I think I owed the supporters something,' he said.
4660
'But when I knew what I had to do and I knew I got caught, I knew in my mind that I could get life or I could get the death penalty.
I knew that.'
4661
Chua replied: 'No sir.'
Mr Griffiths said: 'Gillian Millar, her prescription chart was not altered but it is alleged by the prosecution that you offered some sort of unprescribed medicine to that lady after she arrived on the ward.
4662
Raikkonen crosses the line to post a 1:40.917, but he appeared to be struggling with plenty of understeer on that lap and Vettel crosses the line to go one second quicker than his Ferrari team-mate.
4663
Diego Costa will miss four weeks with a hamstring injury, Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has confirmed.
'We have eight matches to play, if he [Costa] plays four it's normal,' Mourinho said.
4664
Koby, who is now 11, suffered a series of cardiac arrests, where the heart suddenly stops pumping blood around the body, and was treated in intensive care .
4665
The children have been named as children as boys Cameron Todd, 13, and Zycheim Todd, 7; and girls Tynijuiza Todd, 15; Tykira Todd, 12; Tybree Todd, 10; Tyania Todd, 9; and Tybria Todd, 6.
4666
Ron Aydelott, head coach for the Riverdale High School Warriors in Murfreesboro for nearly ten years, suffered serious facial injuries after being attacked by a 17-year-old student Tuesday .
4667
The Antigua Test, of course, will be his 100th, and he needs only four wickets – a morning’s and evening’s work with two new balls, perhaps? – to go past Ian Botham’s England record of 383.
4668
With nothing to separate the two, the gag is that the pair have so many 'cards' to play, they're still playing them 50 years later.
4669
The move proved an instant success as the $88 Paisley Asymmetrical Dress sold out almost immediately and created an online buzz for the range.
4670
Slager, 33, who is white, said that he felt 'threatened' by Scott, who is black, during a confrontation over his Taser, but video shows the civilian running away before being shot.
4671
Meanwhile, those heading for Sky’s exit door after the consultation exercise will be delighted to know mediocre £4m-a-year pundit Thierry Henry paid for his private jet flight to the Sunderland v Newcastle match out of his own pocket.
4672
A series of gruesome photographs show a man being led out of a van handcuffed and blindfolded before he is executed by a masked man, wielding a meat cleaver.
4673
The main house on the Rosehall Estate near Inverness in the Scottish Highlands, which was once the secret love nest of the Duke of Westminster and Coco Chanel .
4674
Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim has reignited his feud with Arsene Wenger by claiming Champions League quarter-final opponents Juventus are by far the better team.
4675
Pierce left his wheelchair for good in 2006.
He has since climbed all 48 mountains in New Hampshire, as well as run 30 road races, with his guide dog Quinn .
4676
Speaking out for the first time since six women filed civil lawsuits accusing him of unwanted sexual advances, 69-year-old Bikram Choudhury strongly denied the accusations.
4677
Marvin "Papi Gallo" Jones and Ramon Luis Nicolas were in the middle of a bout when the black phone slipped out from Jones' black and red shorts at the ring in Arcadia, Florida.
4678
Farmer Mandy Dunford, 54 (right), feels forced to leave her home after neighbour Kenneth Ward, 67 (left), who was jailed for exposing himself to her in 2011, was released from prison and allowed to return to his home .
4679
Pique is poised to star for Barcelona in their Champions League quarter-final match with PSG in the French capital on Wednesday night.
4680
Kayla apologized to the women, saying she was trying to figure out who she was because it's 'difficult' to be both gay and Mormon .
4681
7.
9.
11.
3. Manny averages over 2,500 sit-ups daily during training camp .
Over the past 12 months Manny has met with President Obama, President Clinton and Prince Harry .
4682
A study reveals that Britons spend an average of £62 a week on rewarding themselves, with retail therapy reaching a high at lunchtime today.
4683
Zimbabwe victims of xenophobic attacks in South Africa disembark from a bus on arrival at the International Organisation for Migration Reception and Support Centre in Beitbridge, Zimbabwe .
4684
Steven Gerrard leaves his beloved Liverpool at the end of the season after an illustrious career and amazingly club legend Steve Heighway predicted that he'd be a success - in a newspaper article in 1992.
4685
Two French male tourists allegedly ignited an aerosol spray with a lighter causing a large flame to make contact with a quokka on Rottnest Island off Perth in Western Australia on April 3 .
4686
Personal trainer Mike Heatlie, 42, (left), who claims to have previously work with Gwen Stefani, launched the violent attack on Fiona McCartney, 43, (right) outside a nightclub in Edinburgh .
4687
They believe the shooting occurred after a family dispute and believe one of the dead family members had shot their relatives before taking their own life.
4688
There have been several high-profile incidents of racism in Italian football, notably when then Milan player Kevin-Prince Boateng led his teammates off the field to protest racial abuse by opposing fans during a friendly match in January 2013.
4689
Underwear tycoon Michelle Mone is selling her three-bedroom  Glasgow townhouse in order to buy her ex-husband out of the 'dream home' they once shared, it is claimed.
4690
A spokesman for Scotland's Crown Office said: 'Alexander Pacteau, 21, from Glasgow, appeared at Glasgow Sheriff Court today charged with the murder of Karen Buckley, and with attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
4691
He returned to Newcastle in December and has made five appearances, the last of which came as a second-half substitute at Anfield when he was given a heartfelt ovation by the home fans.
4692
West Brom chairman Jeremy Peace is hoping to sell the club for between £150million and £200million .
4693
Detained: A gang member arrested during raids by Homeland Security and Customs officials across the country shows off his head tattoo in Dallas, Texas (left).
4694
The gang of four were seen trying to hack into an ATM outside a Waitrose supermarket in Kenilworth in Warwickshire, before they fled police in the stolen car after nearby residents reported seeing sparks flying from the cash machine.
4695
Hollie Tillbrook, 17, was saved by two off-duty police officers when she had a heart attack in Basildon, Essex .
The teen was then put into an induced coma.
4696
The Gunners are now in fine form and beat Liverpool 4-1 on Saturday but still have the exact same record .
4697
The feeling, why I got emotional, that feeling was unbelievable.'
He said: 'You win a game like this and the lads have got to enjoy it.
4698
Charlize Theron pictured with Jackson, the boy she adopted from her native South Africa.
Theron adopted the boy, Jackson, from her native South Africa.
4699
I’m not worried about me.
Lena told her critics: 'I am going to live to be 100, and I am going to show my thighs every day till I die.'
4700
But I try to give my best.
Veteran striker Drogba (centre) insisted he tried to give the best of his physical capacity against QPR .
4701
This sprawling house, built on the site of an old telephone exchange in Chelsea, west London, has been sold for 300 times the average price of home in England and Wales .
4702
Arsenal celebrate after a fine strike from Alexis Sanchez put them 3-0 up against Liverpool on Saturday .
Theo Walcott (left) has struggled since returning from a year-long injury lay-off .
4703
The awards also awarded its chef of the year accolade, which this year went to Swiss chef Daniel Humm, chef and co-owner of Eleven Madison Park, which came in a fourth in the list and The NoMad in New York City, which placed 89th.
4704
Moya Gerber and her sister Rone Odendaal, 24, spotted this struggle between two lions and a buffalo in the Kruger National Park in South Africa, so they stopped to photograph it .
4705
Other government agencies, including the State Department, were affected for longer periods of time than 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
4706
Following the scare, the National Farmers' Union has issued advice for residents on protecting their property from invading badgers (stock photo)
4707
'On behalf of the NSW Rugby community, I would like to offer our sincere condolences and support to the family and friends of Nick Tooth, and to the rugby community of Quirindi and the Central-North region,' he said in a statement.
4708
Mr Davies said: 'It was incredibly dangerous, the sea was 10 metres below Andrei, crashing against jagged rocks, also the wind plays a big factor, threatening to blow them off course whilst in the air.
4709
JAMES SLACK sorts the Labour leader’s emotive claims about the contracts from the very different reality.
REALITY:
REALITY:
REALITY:
REALITY:
4710
Smoking area:
He was standing in a smoking area behind the Despicable Me Minion Mayhem ride at the time.
Four visitors witnessed the suicide, he said.
4711
'He told me that because I need to go to selection and my passport was with the Home Office, and he told me that he was going to help and I said, "How are you going to do that?"
4712
Under wraps: The sequel to the Girl With The Dragon Tattoo series by Steig Larsson (left) entitled The Girl In The Spider's Web (right) has been shrouded in such secrecy it is being written on computers with no internet .
4713
Ticket prices will range from an estimated $25 to $30 (£17 to £20) as New York Wheel LLC, the company behind the ambitious project, hopes it will join the Statue of Liberty, Empire State Building and Times Square as one of New York’s must-visit attractions.
4714
QPR have confirmed that Eduardo Vargas has been ruled out for the rest of the season with a knee ligament injury that is expected to keep him out for between 10-12 weeks.
4715
The Meitivs say they were left to panic for hours by CPS workers after their children--who they raise with a so-called 'free-range' approach--were picked up by police for the second time in two months while walking down the street alone .
4716
Sarah and Mark Brennan show off their longed-for daughter Eryn Elisabeth .
Sarah spent the next two weeks in hospital, but did not go into labour and decided to go home.
4717
McCoy has ridden more winners at Worcester — 298 from 1,089 rides — than at any course in Britain and the venue, while not individually significant, is symbolic.
4718
‘He’s hurting but he needs to stop hurting,’ said Sherwood.
‘The circumstances probably dictated that I thought, “Why not? Let’s throw the dice.
4719
Units from multiple fire departments were called to a fire  just west of Grand Valley State University in Michigan after an April Fools prank involving fireworks sent one apartment unit up in smoke, the Holland Sentinel reports.
4720
The 23-year-old was a regular visitor last year as he looked to step up his fitness in preparation for a potential F1 drive, which came his way with now-defunct Caterham in the final race in Abu Dhabi.
4721
Thank you, thank you God.
Mr Scott's father, Walter Scott, Sr., also hugged the man and said: 'Thank you for another son, God, thank you.
4722
World record holder Paula Radcliffe says she is likely to cry when she runs the final race of her career .
I want to be able to run with my kids.
4723
Inspiration: 'It's a call to all independent strong women, everyone who is trying to juggle careers, motherhood and even just modern life,' Johnson said of the Sirens' Call collection .
4724
At 11:20pm, former world champion Ken Doherty potted a final black and extinguished, for now, the dream of Reanne Evans to become the first women player to play the hallowed baize of Sheffield's Crucible Theatre in the world snooker championship.
4725
The charismatic manager has announced he will leave his post at Borussia Dortmund, alerting a host of clubs in England and across the continent.
4726
Still maintaining an appetite but unable to eat without pain, Kyli was constantly hungry — leading her fiancé Dustin Wood to feel bad eating in front of her .
4727
The Yeatman, Portugal’s first luxury wine hotel, is built into a hill in Vila Nova de Gaia, with all of its 82 rooms facing the river and almost every one themed after a Portuguese winery.
4728
Refugee route: Tens of thousands of migrants are fleeing Libya as extremists take advantage of the political chaos engulfing the country .
4729
The yoga being taught in a San Diego County school system is not a gateway to Hinduism and doesn't violate the religious rights of students or their parents, a California appeals court ruled Friday.
4730
It's great the team are back (in F1) and I understand the effort that has gone into that.
'I'm part of the team and I need to understand everything that is going on.
4731
The car company used eleven sedans to draw the message on the land in Nevada’s Delamar Dry Lake, that read ‘Steph [hearts] you!’ using coordinates and a helicopter.
4732
THE FOUR-AND-HALF SECOND SCAN .
A normal face scan lasts three seconds, scan for four-and-a-half and it's clear someone has 'caught your eye'.
4733
Blue Almonds, one of Kate's favourite shop's, has launched The Royal Collection 2015 inspired by Prince George .
Here's to a fashionable future for baby number two!
4734
John Carver says he will use a whip if he has to in a bid to motivate his Newcastle players ahead of Sunday’s Tyne-Wear derby at the Stadium of Light.
4735
Brian Gemmell, a former captain in the Army Intelligence Corps (pictured), said MI5 spy chiefs ordered him to ‘stop digging’ when he reported a possible paedophile ring at the Northern Ireland children’s’ home, Kincora .
4736
Marouane Fellaini has emerged as an force to be reckoned with in Manchester United's midfield of late, and Jamie Carragher says Jose Mourinho will be drawing up a special plan to stop him.
4737
The Colombia contract includes a clause stating that Mr Blair would make two trips a year to Colombia, and he gets to choose who joins him.
4738
NSW Homicide squad boss Detective Superintendent Mick Willing (pictured) revealed on Friday that police are investigating William Tyrrell's disappearance at a very fast pace and that 'one of our lines of inquiry relates to people we expect to be involved in a paedophile ring'
4739
The bike doesn’t rely on pedal power alone, but rather has an electric motor inside that assists it at speeds of up to 20mph in the US and 15.5mph in the EU.
4740
New South Wales police say Hamdin touched the 15-year-old girl inappropriately during the concert of U.S. rappers YG and Ty Dolla $ign at Enmore Theatre, in Sydney's inner-west, on Australia Day this year.
4741
McCoy, 40, has been champion jump jockey for the past 20 years, and when he was handed the trophy for the final time today by former Arsenal player Ian Wright, it emerged that the Irish jockey will be allowed to keep it in perpetuity.
4742
The Letzgo Hunting group has caught dozens of paedophiles by posing as young girls online, arranging meetings and then alerting the police.
4743
Kayla Mooney, 24, was arrested after allegedly having a sexual relationship with a student during her first year of teaching at Danbury High School .
After Mooney complained the boy's girlfriend was harassing her, the school launched a seven-week investigation in which the boy told police about his sexual relationship last year with the science teacher .
4744
Amy launched a cupcake and cake business at age 13 with the help of her mother Gillian, as they both thought they could make better cakes than what was already out there .
4745
Packs of Cadbury chocolate Fingers have come down by 11 grams – the equivalent of two chocolate Fingers – to a weight of 114g.
Makers:
4746
Three-year-old Jack Crowe died just days after celebrating his birthday with family (right) when he fell into their garden swimming pool .
4747
Between February 2012 and July 2012, Fife social work and NHS Fife health visiting services carried out a number of joint home visits after concerns were twice raised.
4748
Mr Miliband said he would have to pay the proposed £250 a month 'mansion tax' on homes worth more than £2million but claimed this did not mean he actually lived in one.
4749
While some other mothers nudged one another in disbelief as Kate and Prince George cooed over the new-born animals, staff at Snettisham Farm Park, Norfolk, are so familiar with the Duchess of Cambridge she knows many on first-name terms.
4750
'We wanted to do the least twist possible because I hate the twisting part.
And Daley hopes his new dive will bring victory at next month's FINA Diving World Series in London .
4751
Hearts romped to the title with seven games to spare and currently sit 26 points in front of a Rangers side fighting to finish as best of the rest ahead of the play-offs.
4752
Cecily Hamilton, 16, and her friend Taylor Swing, 18, died on March 15 when their car plunged off the bridge in White County and into the water below.
4753
For Jay, the subject of his photos is always his beautiful girlfriend, but the pair also capture intimate shots of themselves together enjoying beach time, sunsets, amazing helicopter journeys and surfing.
4754
Neymar has the blend of Cristiano Ronaldo (left) and Lionel Messi in his skillset .
Luis Suarez (left) Neymar (centre) and Lionel Messi celebrate a goal against Atletico Madrid in January .
4755
Firefighters used a ladder to help passengers get to safety after some 1,200 people were stuck on the East Grinstead to Victoria train a quarter of a mile south of Clapham Junction .
4756
Filing an official complaint to Russia, the State Department alleges a U.S. RC-135U reconnaissance aircraft was flying near the Baltic Sea in international airspace when a Russian SU-27 Flanker cut into its path.
4757
Seen on CCTV: The videos were handed to police and have now led to Adams being convicted of three counts of theft - although she escaped with a community order, restraining order and a total fine of £175 .
4758
Manchester United players hung a fake bird above Ashley Young's peg in the dressing room after a bird pooed in his mouth during a top-flight match, Luke Shaw has revealed.
4759
Brandon spoke of Bruce during the years in the early '80s: 'Us missing a time of our lives is still the probably the hardest thing for us to deal with, we're trying not to look back, just looking forward.'
4760
The new terminal, which will be used for many of the city's low-cost carrier departures, first opened on April 8 and according to the website, the aim of the innovative tracks was, in part, to save money.
4761
Brittany Lincicome beat Stacy Lewis in a play-off to claim her second ANA Inspiration crown after a dramatic end to the LPGA's opening major of the year in California.
4762
The goalkeeper whose extra-time error led to Reading being dumped out of the FA Cup at Wembley had already booked his wedding for the weekend of the final.
4763
But despite all that, Khadijah Dare's heartbroken mother Victoria has used her first ever interview to call upon her daughter to return and says she wants her only child in her life.
4764
The states agreed that when Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day fell on a weekend, a public holiday the next working day would be triggered.
4765
On a day when American Scott Piercy went round in 63 and Phil Mickelson enjoyed his best round in months with a 66, it was hardly surprising the only reporter waiting to talk to Rose was this one.
4766
Lastly, the 'NT landscape' category was won by  Anna Weir for her  amazing photograph of waterlogged farm land called No.11 Ammaroo.
Sunset storm:
4767
Johnson leaves Peterlee police station after being charged with three offences of sexual activity .
I wouldn’t sign for them now if I was a young English player.’
4768
Dundee manager Paul Hartley is not reading too much into Dundee United's recent slide ahead of Wednesday night's Scottish Premiership derby at Dens Park.
4769
Residents in San Bernardino County in California were forced to flee their homes after a planned control burn in an area of brush land went out of control due to high winds.
4770
Ms Edwards, a 55-year-old teacher, was last seen between 10pm and 11pm on March 14 after spending the afternoon with close friends at the nearby Good Intent Hotel.
4771
But Ms Sturgeon told Sky News: 'On May 8 once the votes are cast, once the people have cast their verdict, Ed Miliband, just like the rest of us, will have to respect the wishes of the people in a democratic election.
4772
A Labour government would take action to enforce a Premier League commitment to invest five per cent of the proceeds from lucrative TV rights deals in grassroots sport, the party has said.
4773
Alan Pardew has warned Crystal Palace's Barclays Premier League admirers that if they want to sign Yannick Bolasie this summer then the bidding will have to start at £20million.
4774
Tanguy Pepiot celebrated his victory (left) before missing out to his rival on the finishing line (right) Pepiot (right) is pictured raising his hands to excite the crowd - as Meron Simon (left) tears toward him .
4775
Linda Hunter (pictured) who lives on Garrick Street, Wavertree, Liverpool, says she is stuck in a 'ghetto' after Liverpool city council offered to sell homes in her street for £1 .
4776
The club posted several pictures of the bus on their website after the attack which showed a shattered side window and damage to the front windscreen.
4777
May 15, May 16,  May 19 . June 17, June 18 . July 14, July 16 . August 14, August 15, August 17 .
I don’t know when Cheryl’s birthday is, but I know that Bernard does not know too.
4778
Former Arsenal striker Henry, now a pundit for Sky Sports, took exception to Hernandez celebrating 'like he'd won the World Cup' after scoring the winning goal for Real Madrid on Wednesday night, and said after the match that he owed everything to his team-mate Cristiano Ronaldo.
4779
Lewis Hamilton sauntered to pole position for the Malaysian Grand Prix, nearly one second ahead of Sebastian Vettel’s third-fastest Ferrari.
4780
Henry Rayhons, 78, was accused of having sex with his wife Donna Lou Rayhons at her nursing home - despite being told her dementia and Alzheimers meant she no longer had the capacity to decide for herself.
4781
'We're no heroes, just tourists': The Swedish cops (pictured left to right) Erik Näslund, 26, Samuel Kvarzell, 25, Makrus Åsberg, 25, and Eric Jansberger, 28, said they were just answering the call of duty .
4782
Former Arsenal flop Nicklas Bendtner was not included in the Wolfsburg squad for Sunday's draw against Schalke as punishment for turning up late for training on Friday.
4783
Maria Sevilla has lived in Australia since 2007, when she arrived in the Queensland town of Townsville - a single mother wanting to become a nurse, in the hope of finding a better life for herself and for her baby.
4784
Patrick Bamford (second right) scored Middlesbrough's second goal as they beat Wolves on Tuesday night .
Booked: Stearman, Batth, Sako, Edwards.
4785
Downton Abbey creator Julian Fellowes is to give a unique insight into his inspiration for the period drama at the Chalke Valley History Festival.
4786
Despite being shorter, the new tower is able to transport a similar amount of power to its predecessor - 400,000 volts - and each arm can support 60 tonnes of weight.
4787
Their family and friends had built up a small memorial with pink and white statues, flowers, pebbles and toys in the 11 months since Faith and Hope died .
4788
They believe she could be in the Winchester or Southampton area.
PC Ross Edwards, from Hampshire Constabulary, said: 'We are becoming concerned for Isobel's welfare after she left home around Saturday lunchtime.
4789
Perz (left) recently sent Marilyn Mecham (right), his home economics teacher in 1977, a check for $10,000 .
Attached to the letter was a check for $10,000.
4790
Nick Cousins left the Hong Kong court clutching the hand of his wife Herminia Garcia, who is charged with wilful neglect following the death of their 15-year-old daughter, Blanca Cousins, in an apparent suicide .
4791
The process of ensuring students are vaccinated is complicated because 60 different languages are spoken by students in the Spokane district, and about 30 percent of the students leave their school each year.
4792
February 14, 2002 – Mr Aamer flown to Guantanamo . 2004–09 – 17 other UK-based Guantanamo detainees freed – but Mr Aamer kept at camp .
4793
The buggy can also be controlled remotely, and in the future Nasa says this system can be expanded to allow for autonomous driving.
4794
In the Dove campaign, women were asked to choose between a door marked 'beautiful' or 'average' Yet to admit to the world ‘yeah, I look good’
4795
John Carver has hit back at former Newcastle captain Michael Owen after he said they would lose every remaining match this season.
I understand that.
4796
Equally, current BMI categories give the wrong picture for what might be called the 'fit fat'; people who may have a lot of fat but also eat well and exercise regularly.
4797
That night when I contemplated doing it, I wept like a baby.
Robinson, pictured with Ben Cohen, has said 'nothing will compare to winning the World Cup in Australia'
4798
Pusok's arrest was recorded by a TV news helicopter and has led to an FBI civil rights investigation and 10 deputies being placed on leave pending an internal probe.
4799
The warning from Marteel could be the end of Sunday's matter.
O'Sullivan in action against Stevens in their second round match  at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield .
4800
White House tradition:
President Obama greets a young guest during the White House Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House on Monday .
4801
Lee Westwood nearly got off to the perfect start with a stunning shot at the par-five second.
The 21-year-old has averaged 1.39 putts per hole, the best in the field.
4802
Other photo projects submitted for consideration included children playing football in one of Argentina's most dangerous slums, a stunning image of a starry Malaysian night sky, and pictures of people living in the inhospitable industrial outskirts of St Petersburg, Russia.
4803
Biso the cat, who was stuck behind a wall in a Cairo train station for five years, has finally been freed .
Uncle Abdo is still looking for him inside the station.
4804
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon was mocked by ex-PM Sir John Major over her demand to play a role in proper up a Labour government, when she is 'not even bothering' to stand as an MP herself .
4805
Chelsea have opened talks with Patrick Bamford over an improved contract following his stunning loan spell at Middlesbrough.
4806
The 25-year-old England centre-back had been linked with a move to Arsenal after struggling to hold down a first-team place at United and being branded ‘stupid’ by manager Louis van Gaal for his sending-off in the Manchester derby at the Etihad earlier this season.
4807
Mr Endean, who is standing for Nigel Farage's party in council elections, re-tweeted the above image with a caption that said: 'Labour's new floating voters.
4808
Bolton: Amos, Vela, Mills, McCarthy, Ream, Danns, Bannan, Feeney (Gudjohnsen 77'), Rochinha (Heskey 46'), Walker (Craig Davies 68'), Le Fondre .
4809
St Patrick's Parish in Stephensville, Wisconsin said in a statement that the Original Pig Rassle will be replaced this  August with a human mud foosball tournament.
4810
Looking at the morning photo, strangers generally thought she looked somewhere between her late twenties or early thirties, but with the evening photo, they guessed she was in her late thirties and forties.
4811
Louis van Gaal pictured with Manchester City women's players Toni Duggan (left) and Isobel Christiansen (far right), while they were joined by Everton's Michelle Hinnigan at Wing's restaurant .
4812
Christine Davidson, from Adelaide, South Australia, was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer in 2001, and told she only had between nine months to three years to live.
4813
Bowyer had looked ready to celebrate the latest of equalisers after Eastwood skilfully controlled the ball before testing his Reds counterpart Simon Mignolet with a tricky drive.
4814
Prime Minister John Key said sorry to waitress Amanda Bailey, 26, after she wrote a post on a blog site shaming him for his behaviour and saying it made her 'uncomfortable'.
4815
More than a third (35 per cent) of 18 to 24-year-olds said they had got so drunk they could not remember most of their night out, with one in five (18 per cent) admitting they have not been able to recall how they got home.
4816
Kellie Maloney went on a fitness regime before her sex change operation (pictured) and six days on from the procedure she has left hospital and is recovering at home .
4817
Among the haul was an 18 carat gold Goliath 8-Day Swedish royal presentation wedding pocket watch made in 1910 worth £12,500; an 18 carat gold Fusee Verge watch by Thomas Earnshaw of London worth £9,000; and a gold Fusee Liverpool Massey 4 pocket watch made in 1824, worth £8,000.
4818
The Mexican does not feature in Louis van Gaal's plans and could be available for around £7million .
4819
9 years difference: Singer Leona Lewis at the age of 21 in 2006 (left) and now at 30 (right) 13 years difference: Actress Reese Witherspoon at the age of 26 years old in 2002 (left) and now at 39 (right)
4820
As renting in the capital soared to an average of more than £1,100 per month, the second year history and politics student who attends a London university told how she took up sex work– even visiting some clients at their workplace.
4821
How Depay could look for Manchester United (left) and the winger playing last week for PSV (right) Old Trafford forwards Wayne Rooney (from left to right), Robin van Persie, Radamel Falcao and James Wilson .
4822
Breakfast: .
Healthy breakfast 'wrap' with spicy paprika egg white wrap, stuffed with crispy chorizo, avocado, rocket, red onion and tomatoes.
4823
The last time City managed to win having been in a losing position at half-time was on April 17, 1995 when they beat Blackburn Rovers 3-2 having been 2-1 down at the break.
4824
Council chiefs were condemned last night after claiming it was too dangerous to collect the roadside litter blighting Britain.
Highways
4825
The man walks back to the car, briefly glances at the woman's body on the ground, then gets behind the wheel and drives off .
4826
Sophomore Tiffany Gay thought she was being led outside for a routine fire drill but instead she found her biggest crush, junior Luis Velasquez, holding a bouquet of flowers.
4827
And so does Louis van Gaal.
Steven Gerrard slips against Chelsea at Anfield last season - a game Chelsea won with only 17% possession .
4828
Us Weekly reported Nikki affirmed the big news while attending the Catdance Festival at Sundance on Saturday, where she said of her husband-to-be: 'He's so beautiful inside and out!'
4829
The two Michelin-starred Enoteca is the flagship restaurant - it's stunning but not stuffy, and you fully expect Penelope Cruz to be dining with Pedro Almodovar at the next table (Hotel Arts is where she and many Hollywood A-listers stay).
4830
7 .
Chris Ramsey - 6.5 .
Subs: . Oscar 6 (for Ramires, 56); Juan Cuadrado 5.5 (for Willian 80); Kurt Zouma (for Fabregas)
Jose Mourinho - 6.5 .
4831
Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, has claimed the 63-year-old Hollywood producer asked her for a kiss and groped her during a 'business meeting' at his Tribeca office in Manhattan on Friday night.
4832
Also known as: Strip Lon, Shell Steak, Kansas City Strip, New York Strip Steak .
Also known as: Strip Loin, Shell Steak, Kansas City Strip, New York Strip Steak .
4833
Quincy Hazel and Sabrina Golden-Hazel, both 44 from Riviera Beach, also allegedly never took either of the children, a 17-year-old boy and a 12-year-old girl, to a doctor or dentist.
4834
Of course Guardiola isn't alone responsible for the decline of the Premier League in Europe; nor is it really down to St Andrews, though the iconic town with its genteel ambience played its part in continental Europe overhauling the English clubs.
4835
The judge handed her a 10-month jail sentence suspended for 18 months, with 240 hours of unpaid work, adding: 'I hope she ends up doing work that gets her hands dirty.'
4836
Ben Stokes starred with the ball on the first day of England's warm-up match in St Kitts, but it was the runs of Alastair Cook and Jonathan Trott that pleased him most.
4837
Israel is developing a system to accurately detect tunnelling activity, it has been revealed.
It is thought the system will cost around £2.3million ($3.5m) per mile to install.
4838
Russia have been awarded a 3-0 walkover victory while Montenegro have been hit with a stadium ban following the abandonment of a fraught Euro 2016 qualifier in Podgorica.
4839
The 26-year-old, who has scored three goals in 10 games for Villa, said: 'I feel at home at Villa, it's a great club, I'm sure at the end of the season we can sit down and I can sign.
4840
'I'm glad these advertisers drew the line before they went tasteless,' a social media user joked when he posted this image to Twitter after spotting the ad on the back of a bus .
However, Ms Liszewski said that the active social media presence the restaurant had allowed fans of the establishment to express sexually harassing comments.
4841
Odegaard opted to join Real Madrid after courting interest from a host of top clubs in Europe, including Manchester United and Liverpool, and signed a long-term £40,000 a week contract with the Champions League winners in January.
4842
‘Last year?
‘It’s funny, all my family are going this year, while in other years it was, like:“Ah, not to worry, we’ll wait and go another year.”
4843
Israeli soldiers attend a ceremony marking the start of Israel's memorial day, which started at sunset on Tuesday until Wednesday at nightfall .
4844
The Edwardian-style building and shopfront on Brunswick Street in Fitzroy was once owned by Wei Tang who was convicted in 2006 of keeping five Thai women as sex slaves.
4845
TV insiders say Hugh Bonneville, who plays Lord Grantham in Downton, and Lily James, who plays Lady Rose in the show and who stars in the new Disney cinema hit Cinderella, would be ideal as Thomas Thorne and Mary.
4846
'Yes, sir, I killed my mom in her sleep with a sledgehammer,' Linzy told the court on Tuesday according to the Tennessean.
Mental illness:
4847
Celtic defender Virgil van Dijk celebrates with his team-mates after scoring in the Scottish Cup semi-final .
'We need to move on.
4848
Brian O’Driscoll believes Roman Abramovich style investment is needed to turn English clubs back into a European force but admits that scrapping the salary cap would be dangerous.
4849
Every female student at the school will undergo some form of self-defence training to assist them in identifying dangerous situations .
4850
Badou Jack outpointed Anthony Dirrell on Friday night at the UIC Pavilion to take the WBC super-middleweight title, setting up a fight with mandatory challenger George Groves.
4851
Of the 2,071 people surveyed, 22 per cent cited their pets as a close family member, above in-laws (21 per cent) but below grandparents at 26 per cent.
4852
Trott, who looks sure to open with Alastair Cook in the first Test against West Indies in Antigua on Monday, fell for just two, top-edging an attempted pull against a St Kitts side bolstered by England bowlers Liam Plunkett and Mark Wood.
4853
By the next year he was linked with Demi Moore, although they've both denied the affair and in 2003, Britney Spears accompanied him to the premiere of his film The Recruit but any intimate acquaintance didn't last with Colin insisting they were 'just mates'.
4854
When the Ashes get going on July 8 Australia will undoubtedly bombard Moeen with bouncers after he found a variety of ways to get out to the short ball against Sri Lanka and India last year – with Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc ready to unleash merry hell.
4855
Aljaz Bedene has won his first match since becoming a British citizen after the Slovenian-born player won in the opening round of qualifying for the Casablanca Open.
4856
Yahya Rashid, 19, of Willesden, north west London, is due to appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court today, Scotland Yard said.
4857
Headteacher Linda Shute has banned children from consuming drinks - including tea, coffee, fruit juice and soft drinks - in a bid to protect the long-term health of pupils at Rowdown Primary School in New Addington, south London.
4858
Just 2 minutes and 30 seconds after the officers had removed the woman from the wreckage the vehicle became engulfed in flames.
4859
All banged up: Tom Brady pranked the New England Patriots and his fans with this April Fool's Facebook post that showed him in a hospital in plaster casts from head to toe after his ill-advised cliff dive while on vacation earlier this week .
4860
The war of words come as newly-released satellite images reveal a flotilla of Chinese vessels dredging sand onto artificially-built land masses near the Spratly Islands - an area which many other nations claim.
4861
TYPES OF DISCRIMINATION - Race 28 per cent; Gender 25 per cent; Sexual Orientation 19 per cent; Disability 11 per cent; Antisemitism 9 per cent; Islamophobia 5 per cent; Age 2 per cent; Gender Reassignment 1 per cent .
4862
West Bromwich Albion will make a £3million move for Wales international left-back Neil Taylor this summer.
4863
'Rascal': A new satire puppet show sees Prince George 'blinged-up' with a tattoo, addressing a female doctor with 'Oi, oi! Hello treacle'
4864
An email sent by Toby Perkins, who is deputy chairman of the Labour election campaign as well as MP for Chesterfield, revealed that interns are paid just £25 per week for working 12-hour days.
4865
Knox, 27, fought the Italian legal system for eight years, spent four years in prison and went through three appeals until she and her ex-boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito were exonerated by the Italian Supreme Court in late March for the murder of Meredith Kercher.
4866
Ms Comfort was last seen alive on December 4, 1995.
Kerr was jailed for life for murder at Leeds Crown Court (above) alongside Christopher Moody in 1998 .
4867
Jenny Moretter went on Facebook and posted in a few local groups asking families with girls around Mackenzie's age to stop by their Shakopee home on Saturday - and the response was overwhelming.
4868
A Champions League football match between Liverpool and Ludogrets on 16 September 2014 (pictured) was criticised because the teams played in red and green, making it difficult from people who suffered from colour blindness to watch the match .
4869
Police say they have no objections to the late afternoon kick-off for Sunday's Manchester derby at Old Trafford.
4870
The 39-year-old man, reported to be a father of six, was shot numerous times while sitting in a car in his mother's Altona Meadows driveway at about 2am on Sunday.
4871
Hundreds of British teenagers see ISIS as 'pop idols' like One Direction and Justin Bieber, putting children in danger of being radicalised, the country's most senior Muslim prosecutor has said.
4872
Bradley Dew has been jailed for mugging his deaf friend to steal his mobile phone and a £10 note .
He then stole £10 out of his wallet.
4873
Villa put in an excellent display to upset Liverpool at Wembley and reach their first FA Cup final since Lerner bought the club.
4874
Marlon Samuels found a novel way of carrying on his duel in the second Test with Ben Stokes here on Thursday night when he sent him on his way with a military-style salute.
4875
Private security worker Martin Johnson, 46, was walking his nine-year-old granddaughter Charly Pennett home from school when he narrowly missed being caught up in the crash in Beaumont Leys, Leicestershire.
4876
Christopher Wheeler, 54, who worked at the exclusive Tower Hill school in Delaware, had more than 2,000 images and videos of boys engaging in sex acts with men when police raided his $350,000 mansion in Wilmington in October 2013.
4877
The teenagers live in dorms close by to the school, and each day Xie carries Zhang from their rooms to the school, and back again, and helps him with daily tasks such as getting meals and washing clothes.
4878
Mr Farage said he was looking forward to meeting Essex, but asked if he had ever watched The Only Way Is Essex, he said: 'I have to confess no.'
4879
Psaki (left) says the White House knew she was pregnant when she was being considered for the communications director job, and that Mr Obama called her personally and assured her that maternity leave would not be an issue .
4880
'Every time I moved it felt like glass was being smashed onto my skin’: Bradey said the injuries were the worst pain he has ever felt .
4881
Law enforcement officers say the use of the modern technologies has made it that much harder to determine if a threat is real and to find the culprit (stock photo)
4882
Bruno Fernández has been dubbed the 'Majadahonda Ripper' after police searched his home in a suburb of Madrid, Spain and discovered blood stains and what is thought to have been a human tooth.
4883
The new research on the armoured plates  may help scientists determine whether 'Sophie', the stegosaurus at the Natural History Museum in London pictured above, really is a female or if it was in fact a male dinosaur .
4884
The conservator pro-gun blog Bearing Arms published a piece saying that McGraw's fan base 'overwhelmingly supports gun rights and views a concert benefiting Sandy Hook Promise as being a betrayal'.
4885
The Mint struck nearly a half-million of the Double Eagles in Philadelphia in 1933 but never released them after President Franklin D. Roosevelt abandoned the gold standard and prohibited using the gold coins as currency.
4886
Duncan Burton, 57, was released in November 2012 after 14-years behind bars but was allowed to work for Uber despite city controls prohibiting drug felons driving cabs.
4887
Qantas pilots first wore a khaki military-style tunic when the first international services between Brisbane and Singapore began in 1935.
4888
Diego Maradona put his ‘hand of God’ to different use as he kept in shape by boxing training.
Maradona started with some shots to the head before turning his attention to the body .
4889
Brighton: Stockdale, Bruno, Dunk, Halford, Bennett; Ince, Kayal, Stephens; Carayol (Teixeira 81), O'Grady (Best 45), Lua Lua (Mackail-Smith 75) Subs not used: Walton (GK), Calderon, Hughes, Forster-Caskey .
4890
Now I have lost a game and it is not so good.
Steven Gerrard (left) trains alongside Jordan Henderson, who signed a new Liverpool contract on Thursday .
4891
In the video, Broner tells Khan: ‘Hey, tell them to make the fight, man, let’s get this money.’ It’s by no means certain that the fight will go ahead, with Broner seemingly more keen than Khan.
4892
Hubbard then puts his arms around her and then pulls her away from the drop.
Hubbard then puts his arms around her and then pulls her away from the drop .
4893
Celtic midfielder Stuart Armstrong has backed under-fire Dundee United boss Jackie McNamara to turn around his troubled season at Tannadice.
4894
Manchester United thumped Manchester City 4-2 at Old Trafford on Sunday to move four points clear of their cross-town rivals.
4895
Edmond, who set off nine days and 517 miles ago, rolled the whisky barrel for 12 hours a day, only stopping to sleep and take part in comedy gigs at pubs along the way.
4896
The Baggies are commemorating the launch of the Jeff Astle Foundation and are wearing a replica of their 1968 FA Cup winning kit, where Astle scored the winner against Everton.
4897
Failing to make the most of that pressure almost came back to haunt Wolves four minutes from time when substitute Chris Wood picked up the ball on the left flank and surged towards goal, only to see his shot curl agonisingly wide of Ikeme's far post.
4898
George W. Bush 'just stood and took it' when the grieving mother of a dying soldier screamed at him while he was paying a visit to a military hospital, his former press secretary Dana Perino has revealed (file photo)
4899
Suffering from dementia and Alzheimers, Donna Lou Rayhons was moved into a nursing home by her daughters from a previous marriage last year and she died in August .
4900
Umma, 25, was forced to marry a foreign fighter.
The al-Khansa Brigade operates as an ultra-oppressive police force monitoring the behaviour of females in Raqqa.
4901
Dele Alli (MK Dons to Tottenham Hotspur in February 2015 - £5m – to join next season) Alli has netted 14 goals for the MK Dons this season, more than any other midfielder for a single club .
4902
Manchester City players will lose £500,000-a-man in bonuses if they fail to qualify for the Champions League this season.
4903
Two former Everton players – Marouane Fellaini and Wayne Rooney – both endured wretched afternoons, with Van Gaal revealing he substituted Fellaini to prevent him being sent-off, while Rooney suffered a knee injury that needs assessing.
4904
A lot of the empire's military strength came from its ability to forge Valyrian steel, renowned in the fictional kingdoms as being incredibly sharp, light, strong, super heat-resistant and dark in colour with a very distinct ripple patterns.
4905
Villa are not going to be at full strength, but Ramsey said: 'I'm sure that they will be able to fill those positions adequately, it's not going to be an advantage.'
4906
Jamie Carragher says Mike Ashley has turned Newcastle United into a ‘boring’ club and has accused the billionaire owner of only being interested in making money.
4907
Video footage captured by Rumble user Sean C shows Bourbon the Doberman enthusiastically licking a baby boy on the face and nose .
'Bourbon easy!
4908
Mauricio Pochettino wants talks with the FA before approving Harry Kane’s involvement in the forthcoming European Under 21 Championship.
4909
Later the same week Beatrice then flew to Beijing with mother Fergie and her sister to watch Victoria Tang, daughter of Hong Kong businessman Sir David Tang, get married.
4910
Chotiban says that the tigers are to be moved to the Khao Pra Thap Chang Wildlife Breeding Centre in Chom Bung district and Khao Son Wildlife Breeding Centre in Suan Phung district in Ratchaburi province.
4911
Villarreal's slide continued as a Diego Castro header gave Getafe a 1-1 draw in La Liga on Sunday but the match was overshadowed by a serious looking injury to Mateo Musacchio.
4912
The proposal took place in Kyoto, Japan two weeks ago, and the happy couple are now back in Perth, where they met in 2011.
4913
The study found that male long distance runners, like Mo Farrah (left), are more competitive than women, but there are some women, like Paula Radcliffe on the right, who are arguably more competitive than the men .
4914
Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, told police that the Hollywood producer groped her and put his hand up her skirt during a 'business meeting' at his Tribeca office in Manhattan on Friday night .
4915
A 36-year-old father in Los Angeles has been arrested and charged over the abduction of a two-year-old girl from a car wash earlier this month, who was sexually abused and then dumped in a restaurant parking lot hours later.
4916
It wasn't quite the Etihad or the Westfalenstadion but Sergio Aguero and Marco Reus went head-to-head in an exciting clash to showcase the new Puma boot being launched.
4917
Many of the women also seem surprised by the powerful recoil of the rifle, taking just a couple of shots before returning to the group.
4918
Sugar Ray Leonard celebrates after Roberto Duran quit in their fight in Louisiana in November 1980 .
MUHAMMAD ALI V JOE FRAIZIER . October 1, 1975, Quezon City, Philippines .
4919
To delete your entire search history, click settings, remove items and pick a time frame, such 'from the beginning of time'.
4920
A man carries the body of a dead child onto the Greek island of Rhodes after a boat carrying dozens of people ran aground, killing at least three in one of a number of tragedies involving migrants in recent days .
4921
No to execution: The family of bombing victim Martin Richard wrote an op-ed in the Boston Globe, saying they oppose the death penalty for terrorist Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
4922
Michael Vaughan has been heavily linked with the newly created role of Director of England cricket – and for captain Alastair Cook the move cannot come soon enough if it gets him out of the commentary box.
4923
Skull fragments and facial bones found in Gough's Cave showed extensive cut marks that suggest the flesh was carefully cut away and now scientists believed the inhabitants in the cave indulged in ritual cannibalism .
4924
Back at work: Gary Lincoln is carrying out light duties at his workshop just weeks after he severed his hand .
I've just ruined my life",' Gary said.
4925
He looks barely teenage.
The baby-faced boy from Memphis, Tennessee, poses with guns, cash, and bags of what looks like marijuana.
Adults around:
4926
Paediatric intensive care consultant Dr Peter Wilson said it was 'deeply unfair when the NHS is supposed to be about equal healthcare for all’ that he had to say no to parents wanting proton beam therapy for their children .
4927
The next morning, after an all-American breakfast of bacon and waffles, I left the chintzy charms of the Roger Smith behind for a visit to MOMA, the epicentre of New York’s cultural cool.
4928
Kathrin Goldbach and her family are said to be so afraid of being blamed for the Germanwings crash - caused by Lubitz after he flew the plane he was co-piloting into the French Alps – that they have fled the town and vowed to never return.
4929
Panicked:
It's unclear whether Bullock was in a panic room or a room with a reinforced locking door - similar to that of an actual safe.
4930
Baroness Hale of Richmond said that she wanted to see the bitterness taken out of most matrimonial disputes so a person does not need to be held at fault in order to obtain a divorce.
4931
Craig Roberts, 36, from Chadderton, Manchester, walked into his town's Post Office and an employee shouted from behind the counter that he would have to leave his guide dog Bruce outside if he wanted to be served.
4932
I think it's great, I have no secrets.'
'Back in the day, I wasn't bad looking and didn't have a bad figure' - Helen looks back on her modelling days .
4933
After her signature oversize black Chevy conversion van dropped her off at Capitol Fruit Company in Norwalk, Iowa, a visually identical GMC van drove up to the building with a nearly identical Secret Service escort vehicle.
4934
Karim Benzema, who scored twice himself, hailed his Madrid team-mate Ronaldo as a 'phenomenon' Ronaldo performs his trademark celebration as his team-mates watch during the 9-1 rout at the Bernabeu .
4935
The Tractor Boys, who have now lost four of their last five away games, were caught cold by goals in the opening 30 minutes by Huddersfield strike pair Nahki Wells and James Vaughan.
4936
It was followed by New Jersey, where the average acre cost of $196,000 led a foursome of smaller Northeastern states with acre values above $100,000 with Rhode Island's $133,730, Connecticut's $128,820 and Massachusetts $102,210.
4937
The review also slates the depiction of Catholic martyr Sir Thomas More, played by Anton Lesser in the show as an 'evidence-flouting caricature' that is 'sleazy, mean-spirited and just plain rude'
4938
Gemma the pit bull was filmed at home in California being fed some treats, but in a bid to trick her, her owner throws a broccoli spear into the mix .
4939
Notts County have been without a permanent manager since the departure of Shaun Derry on March 23, with Paul Hart and Mick Halsall taking caretaker charge of their recent games.
4940
His last ever mount will be Box Office in the Bet365 Handicap Hurdle which has drawn a 20-runner line-up.
There is no mount for McCoy in the feature Bet365 Gold Cup.
4941
Asked if his brother was strong, Hamilton said: ‘He’s got very big fists.
Hamilton finished ahead of Raikkonen (centre) and Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg in the Gulf Kingdom .
4942
The strike is already being hailed as one of the greatest in the Premier League's history on social media and has been compared to other legendary long-range strikes from David Beckham and Xabi Alonso.
4943
The last tournament before the Masters is proving quite a show-stopper itself thanks to the crowd-pleasing antics of the popular Phil Mickelson and local boy Jordan Spieth.
4944
Alan Pardew could guide Crystal Palace into the top half of the table just as Mark Hughes could do at Stoke  - something Pulis never achieved .
4945
Rangers' teenage striker Ryan Hardie marked his first ever Light Blues start with a brace as Stuart McCall's side clinched a 3-1 win over Dumbarton.
4946
Although St Mary’s Hospital in west London is the first choice of venue for the delivery, two other hospitals have been put on standby in case the Duchess leaves the capital.
4947
When the man, named by Chinese media as Mr Zhang, arrived at his mother's house and found that she wasn't home, neighbours told him that she had left early that morning with the intention of meeting him.
4948
Five children were questioned by police after 623 fires ravaged 600 acres of fields and woodland this month alone.
South Wales:
4949
The race is the second oldest motor racing event in the US and runs on a challenging 12.42 mile (20km) course with 156 turns in Colorado Springs.
4950
Starbucks says that the drink is inspired by the  'the nostalgic summer experience of roasting s'mores.'
whoop whoop,' Tweeted Brooke Hierholzer .
4951
Mashable reported that Bollaert, in an interview with agents from the California Department of Justice's eCrime Unit, explained the site was 'just, like, ruining my life.'
4952
Wearable art:
Natasha Hope-Simpson turned her handicap into an opportunity to create art and helped to create the design on her prosthetic leg .
4953
'I read up on this and discovered that not only does it take time for mercury levels to drop, but vapour can be released from the mercury when the fillings are removed and leak into the system.
4954
Yogita and Anisha eat 18 chapatis, 3lbs of rice, two bowls of broth, six packets of crisps, five packs of biscuits, 12 bananas and a litre of milk daily.
4955
‘Obviously, there is Lionel Messi and Ronaldo, both of whom are spectacular, but I like Eden Hazard more,’ Zidane, who is tipped as a future manager at the Bernabeu, told fifa.com.
4956
Ms Patty, 35, also known as Patty Patrick, has been accused of 'indirectly causing his death' as seeing her with another man had angered Mr Mackay, but claims she has done nothing wrong.
4957
Passenger Comfort Hardware winner: The SANTO seat by SII Deutschland is larger than usual seats, and makes use of space at the back of aircraft where the fuselage narrows .
4958
Chelsea have made discreet overtures about Sterling, despite Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers insisting on Thursday that his 20-year-old striker is going nowhere this summer.
4959
England lock Joe Launchbury is hopeful of making his comeback in Wasps' Aviva Premiership clash with Leicester on May 9 as the final stage of his rehabilitation enters 'crunch time'.
4960
Ahead of the Reds' FA Cup semi-final against Aston Villa at Wembley on Sunday, the England international met up with comedian Darren Farley as part of an exclusive promotional video to showcase the TV coverage of the match by BT Sport.
4961
England's Justin Rose is just four shots off the lead on 7-under, while Rickie Fowler is one shot off the projected cut as he finished the day on 3-under after his round was stopped at the 15th.
4962
Last year alone he earned £45 million.
After his I Created Disco album (pictured), he packed up singing and retreated, gratefully, into the background .
4963
If I win on the second toss I have recovered my earlier loss of $1 plus my target winning amount of $1, otherwise if I lose I will have to bet $4 on the third toss to recover the $3 lost and still win my targeted win amount.
4964
Kathmandu's three 'Durbar Squares', the courtyards outside the city's old royal palaces, were devastated by the earthquake, with historic temples razed to the ground by the shocks.
4965
In a case that has sparked accusations of heavy-handed censorship, artist Megumi Igarashi said she had done nothing wrong in handing out the code for a 3D printer.
4966
John Phelan took this picture, showing the Lyrid  meteor  at Porthcurno Beach in Cornwall in the early hours of this morning .
4967
Colour-block coat, WAS £179, NOW £107.40; jumper, WAS £89, NOW £53.40; trousers, WERE £69, NOW £48.30; suede-heeled sandals, £119 (all boden.co.uk)
4968
A week after 10 doctors urged Columbia University to sever all ties with him, Dr. Oz has used his syndicated TV show to hit back and claim that the criticism is part of a conspiracy because of his views on genetically modified foods.
4969
A woman was reportedly spotted threatening people with 'a dildo in each hand' during an altercation outside Roches Family Hotel in Grafton .
4970
Austin Hatfield, 18, found the venomous water moccasin, also known as a cottonmouth, near his Wimauma home last week  (pictured is Hatfield with the snake that is believed to have bit him)
'He kisses it right on the head.
4971
The Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust paid £2,200 to a temporary nurse for one 12-hour shift to help amid a shortage of trained nurses, a Freedom of Information request revealed (file picture)
4972
The only way Ed Miliband can get into Downing Street is if he is propped up by the SNP – and they have made clear that they want higher levels of immigration.
4973
The Muslim couple who were abused by a middle-aged woman on a Sydney train said they intend to press charges over the verbal attack.
'It doesn't matter what they're doing...
4974
Phoenix Mercury standout player Brittney Griner and fiancee and fellow WNBA player Glory Johnson have been arrested following a fight at their Phoenix home.
4975
Authorities say hundreds of people walked past but did not stop the attack near Spinnaker Beach Club on Panama City Beach, Florida, in broad daylight during a Spring Break party last month .
4976
Kim Callaghan became so worried that her weight was causing her to look like a man that she went on a dramatic diet that saw her lose half of her body weight .
4977
They say descriptions of Paul's experience - in which he was blinded for three days after seeing a bright light - match accounts of the fireball that streaked across the sky above Chelyabinsk in Russia in 2013.
4978
Six hostages who hid in a supermarket freezer during January's Islamist attacks in Paris have sued French media for broadcasting their location live during the siege.
4979
Bacary Sagna could end the season trophyless and lower than Arsenal in the Premier League but the Manchester City defender insists he has no regrets about leaving the Emirates for the Etihad.
4980
The German language teacher suggested that tanks (pictured is a panzer during the Second World War) should be used to invade France again to subdue unruly pupils .
4981
Dr Jim Penman (left) has suggested Britons have lost the biological drive for innovation that helped huge social, economic and industrial changes during the Victorian era, ruled over by Queen Victoria (right)
4982
'I went out on the soft tyre but had to quickly come back in, and then I went out on low fuel when everyone else was on high fuel, so it was difficult to get in any running.
4983
The sports brand features prominently (circled) on a leaflet distributed in the terror group's de facto capital Raqqa warning ISIS jihadis about items of clothing they are no longer allowed to wear .
4984
Mr Blair, who made his first intervention in the Election campaign last week with a speech backing Ed Miliband and warning about the risks of leaving the European Union, said that he hoped to stay active in both politics and business well into his 90s.
4985
But at the age of 33, the Dutchman knows the midfielder is in the twilight of his career, while the amount of time Carrick has been injured this season is also a worry.
4986
England picked up their first title on the Sevens World Series this season after beating competition leaders South Africa 21-14 in the final of the Tokyo tournament on Sunday.
4987
Four of the men are from Birmingham, West Midlands, and in their 20s, while a 26-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman of no fixed abode were also arrested .
4988
One of the teenagers, Levi Acre-Kendall, was charged with one count of first-degree reckless homicide on Friday by the Polk County attorney's office.
4989
City schools superintendent Chuck Ledbetter says school principals are now required to call the superintendent if any board member asks to sit in on parent-teacher meetings .
4990
Arsenal are close to signing Argentine wonderkid Maxi Romero - who has been dubbed the next Lionel Messi.
'Arsenal have made a big offer for Maxi Romero.
4991
The beloved, traditional Anzac biscuit recipe is a simple one that features rolled oats, desiccated coconut, and golden syrup as the primary ingredients.
4992
All three of the main parties’ education spokesmen - pictured on the BBC's Daily Politics show today - revealed they would have no problem with the next Education Secretary sending their children to private school .
4993
Simona Trasca, 34, said in an interview that her latest boob job was so cheap her surgeon could not have paid tax on it, so her plastic surgeon  sued her .
4994
American Apparel, the controversial retailer known for its sexually suggestive advertising strategy, is looking to alter its risqué image by debuting a 'pro-women' ad campaign featuring its female staffers.
4995
Sometimes the head can be flattened on one side (known as plagiocephaly) or the back of the head becomes flattened, causing the head to widen and the skull to bulge out (known as bracycephaly).
4996
Benik Afobe insists he feels 'unstoppable' as he bids to beat Harry Kane to become the country's top scorer this season.
I got to 30 and now I want to keep scoring, I want to get to 35.
4997
He said the force depends on its agents ability to 'run, fight and shoot'.
FBI chief James Coney said the force depends on its agents' ability to 'run, fight and shoot'
4998
Xabi Alonso was left stretching for a pass with his team-mates watching on and ending up falling over, as the ball approached him at pace.
4999
Unfortunately, the clicking sound of the camera's shutter alerted the lion to Mr Saeed's presence, who was forced to retreat quite rapidly from just 10 feet away from the lion.
5000
Erica Leeder, 26, was charged after she squirted breast milk at a female police officer during a strip search .
The woman will appear in court again next week.
5001
The couple, from Ward End, Birmingham, claimed £66,268 housing benefit, council tax benefit and income support.
5002
At the right club the 24-year-old would thrive.
The 16-year-old Odegaard has struggled to fit in the Real Madrid B-team and may depart on loan next season .
5003
Before and after: Lamadieu's original  shot (left) and after it is transformed into 'sky art' (right) Lamadieu, who is also known as Roots Art, is based in France but travels the world to photograph the space between buildings in various cities.
5004
Wenger has been handed a quadruple fitness boost ahead of Saturday's clash at Burnley with Wilshere, Mathieu Debuchy, Mikel Arteta and Abou Diaby all available for selection after long-term injuries.
5005
In the bowels of Teotihuacan, a mysterious ancient city that . was once the largest in the Americas, earlier this month Sergio Gomez found 'large quantities' of the silvery metal in a chamber at . the end of a sacred tunnel sealed for nearly 1,800 years.
5006
As one might imagine, Rafa Benitez's arrival at Stamford Bridge as interim manager in 2012 came as quite a slap in the face to Chelsea fans still hurting from Roberti Di Matteo's untimely departure just months after winning the Champions League.
5007
Damian (left) who was also adopted by Penny and John from the same orphanage as Latika (right) Latika with two of her sisters Gabriela (left) and her oldest sibling Melissa (right) Latika is grateful to have grown up in Australia .
5008
Australian author and CEO of the Australian College of Environmental Studies, Nicole Bijlsma, told Daily Mail Australia that an investigation into products sold at Australian two dollar stores could produce similar results.
5009
Adding the fact that Chief Constable Sue Sim was 'wrong', Mr Vaz said commissioners should never have been given the ability to allocate public funds to charity.
5010
It is understood Mr Anyabwile replaced Mr Arwani at the An-Noor mosque in Acton, West London, some time around 2013.
'He just wanted to help people in need.
5011
Falcao has only scored four goals since signing for Manchester United but found his form again with three goals in two games for his country.
5012
The two astronauts on the Gemini 4 mission were Jim McDivitt and Ed White.
Gemini 4 (pictured) launched from Cape Canaveral in Florida on 3 June 1965 with two astronauts on board .
5013
'The fans will hopefully get behind us as they always do.
There will be an edge to the game with a returning manager, so it's a game for everyone to look forward to.'
5014
Mr Farage is also facing a fight to win his own election battle after falling behind the Tories in Thanet South, Kent - despite enjoying a 12 point lead over his Conservative rival just two months ago.
5015
They will walk in the footsteps of the world’s biggest cats and spend time with Alexander Batalov, a frontline Russian conservationist who has spent the last 20 years of his life trying to protect the rare Siberian tiger.
5016
When Bale signed his record £86m deal to join Real Madrid from Tottenham two years ago he had a £75m release clause written in.
I am also hearing .
5017
This high-resolution option doesn’t just make reading messages easier, it also means you get a full keyboard, which makes typing easier, too.
5018
U.S. researchers are testing the new gel it as a dressing for burns .
Platelet-rich plasma is sometimes used to treat tendon injuries and for cosmetic procedures .
5019
The West Indies believe they now dominate England captain Alastair Cook whose nightmare start to the series saw him fail in both innings of the first Test - along with opening partner Jonathan Trott.
5020
As the end credits rolled following the BBC debate last night, four of the five party leaders shook hands with each other - but Mr Farage (right) just drank from a glass of water from behind his stand .
5021
The authors of the scathing communique took a particular issue with what they described as Oz's ‘baseless and relentless opposition to the genetic engineering of food crops.’
5022
Once they retire from performing, elephants will be taken to the Ringling Brothers Elephant Conservation Center in an undisclosed, 200-acre area of Polk County in central Florida .
5023
Jack Grealish took to Twitter shortly after arriving at Wembley Stadium to thank supporters for sending in messages ahead of their clash with the Reds.
5024
'This particular bear called Beaumont Bear once belonged to Flight Lieutenant Stephen Beaumont, a 30-year old Spitfire pilot in the Battle of Britain.
5025
Uma Thurman's stalker Jack Jordan trailed the actress for three years but was jailed in 2008 after he sent her cards with sexually suggestive messages in them .
5026
The UCO Stormproof Matches (pictured) are made using an incredibly tough coating that smoulders no matter what happens to it and will start burning again once it comes into contact with oxygen .
5027
Adriana Giogiosa was reported missing by her brother after he was unable to contact her, and Ms Giogiosa's landlord in Madrid has been arrested in connection with her disappearance and a meat grinder found there .
5028
The 90-second attack was captured on CCTV by a neighbour who passed the footage on to the cat's owner Tracy Lynch, from Tarring, West Sussex, and the police.
5029
'The crew rescued the pig from the swimming pool using specialist animal rescue slide boards, strops and lines to haul the pig from the swimming pool.'
5030
It comes as Ms Bines - who is from the Gold Coast in Queensland - also reveals she has been abused by online trolls who made nasty comments about her unborn child, with one saying they hoped her baby would be born with a disability, News Corp reported.
5031
On Good Friday, the mother of two left her home in Rowley Regis, West Midlands, after telling her husband she was 'just popping out'.
5032
The CYG-11 aircraft, which have been developed by the Hainan Yingge Wing in Ground Effect Craft Manufacturing Company with Russian engineers, can carry 10 passengers plus two flight crew.
5033
'That means there is not a lot of space, so you have to play very well or you need a player who makes an individual action and scores a goal.
5034
Gareth, pictured, was killed at the age of 30 after he discovered his boyfriend was conning him and his family out of money .
He was a charmer,' she said.
5035
Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, a naturalized American citizen of Somali descent, had been instructed by a cleric to return to the United States and carry out an act of terrorism, the indictment said.
5036
Kenya's athletics federation has suspended the agents of marathon world record holder Dennis Kimetto and other top stars while it investigates the spike in doping among the country's runners.
5037
The BBC has said that Top Gear is likely to return and continue in some form, but co-presenters James May and Richard Hammond are not expected to return .
5038
In Australia, in addition to using double the amount of alcohol-related emoji than average, its residents also use nearly twice as many junk food emoji as any other language and use drug emoji - including cigarettes, the needle and pills - 65 per cent more than average.
5039
With tears in her eyes, Yolanda Verona, from Tijuana, Mexico, bends down and embraces her seven-year-old granddaughter, Frida Villagomez - whom she has not seen in years - after the gate at Border Field State Park in California was briefly opened for Children's Day .
5040
The image has since gone viral .
Wilson Beach is the wife of TV actor Michael Beach, best known for his roles on Third Watch, Sons of Anarchy and ER .
5041
'The book has been shown as a source of ribald humor on The Tonight Show and Jimmy Kimmel Live as well as being displayed and read before the press at media day for the Super Bowl.'
5042
Pacquiao was spotted with several fitness fanatics during his run around one of the North America's largest urban parks.
5043
Home secretary Theresa May (pictured) warned that lives will be in danger if Britain is saddled with a hung Parliament unable to pass anti-terror laws - adding new legislation for MI5 and GCHQ is urgently needed .
5044
The helicopter came down on a house in the Carapicuiba area of Sao Paulo killing five people, one of whom was reportedly Thomaz Alckmin, son of Sao Paulo governor Geraldo Alckmin .
5045
The model, who underwent gender-confirmation surgery last year, took to the runway for the first time as a woman during designer Giles Deacon's Autumn/Winter 2015 show in February (pictured)
Visit site .
5046
Meanwhile, Toulon are plotting a move for Australia fly-half Quade Cooper after missing out on Sale’s Danny Cipriani, who signed a new deal in February.
5047
The inspiration: A statue at Rugby School depicting the moment pupil William Webb Ellis picked up a football and ran with it during a match in 1823, in an action said to be the beginning of the modern game of rugby after pupils wrote their own set of rules .
5048
Manchester City wanted Isco when he left Malaga two years ago but he chose Real Madrid over Manuel Pellegrini.
Isco is the seventh man in that front six.
5049
It comes after Evans' recently shared two stories on his social media accounts of women who claimed the paleo diet helped alleviate the symptoms of their multiple sclerosis.
5050
Final result: The team behind Fullips claim it can achieve an Angelina Jolie-sized pout, but Charlotte found the results were not quite as dramatic as she had hoped .
5051
The driver can be heard beeping his horn at the girl who is standing middle of the road before hitting into her with a horrifying thud.
5052
A man has admitted to ripping another man’s scrotum with a metal hook after he thought a concreting job wasn’t up to scratch.
5053
Sky Sports pundit Paul Merson had a pop at Spurs substitute Andros Townsend after the match .
#RubberDub #7minutes'
#RubberDub #7minutes'
5054
Isco (left) returned to the Real Madrid starting XI for the Champions League semi-final, but only due to injuries .
'I thought he was doing a good job.'
5055
Sunday’s visit of Spurs will probably come too soon for De Jong and hamstring absentee Aarons – who has not played since November - but Carver will be desperately hoping to have them available for the final five matches of a season which is in danger of ending on a sour note.
5056
One person wrote a meaningful caption about ANZAC Day but uploaded a bared stomach (left) while a clothing store uploaded three women eating ANZAC cookies with hashtag #leastweforget .
5057
The 29-year-old seemed in high spirits as she was seen laughing and joking with friend, Irene Forte, at the launch party for new London restaurant, The Ivy Chelsea Garden.
5058
Daryl Janmaat (left) has admitted that Newcastle United's performance in their Tyne-Wear derby against Sunderland wasn't good enough and they got exactly what they deserved - nothing .
5059
With four rounds of matches remaining, just 11 points split leaders ES Setif and bottom-placed NA Hussein Dey, meaning, theoretically, that any of the 16 teams in the league could still be crowned champions.
5060
It's an easy option pointing fingers at the manager but the players have got to look at themselves, have they done enough?
I was a player.
5061
Similar marks have been seen at other Neanderthal sites showing how our ancestors cut and fractured the bones of their dead relatives.
5062
Indeed, the couple already own one, having been gifted a £360 Dorothy and Theodore toy box by 10 Downing Street following Prince George's birth.
5063
Senior members of Scientology, that are part of the higher Sea Org order, apparently are forced to play musical chairs to Bohemian Rhapsody by Queen to vie for a place in the church, as a form of punishment .
5064
'I was talking with her, she was asking for help and I couldn't get her out of the car because the tree had pinned her in' said witness Leonard Washington.
5065
The app, which Bianca London, left, before, and, right, after, tried out, claims to give any user the ability to achieve high-end, realistic looking results, comparable only to what a professional can achieve on the desktop with Photoshop .
5066
Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal has praised the resurrection of Marouane Fellaini as the big Belgian prepares to play in the fixture that marked the low point of his Old Trafford career 12 months ago.
5067
Tyre changer Todd Phillips, a front-outside tire changer for Dayle Coyne Racing, was injuried when he was struck by the car of Francesco Dracone, who had come in on Lap 25 for tyres and fuel .
5068
A 2-1 win over West Ham last weekend gave them a first victory in nine league games and ended a run of just two points from a possible 24.
5069
Utah police said in court documents that they want Alshammari held without bail in Utah because they believe his international connections and willingness to walk away from $100,000 bail mean he'll flee the country to avoid prosecution.
5070
‘In some of our earlier studies, we found that people selectively remember neutral pictures if the pictures had been associated with an electrical shock the previous day, even when the volunteers were unaware that we would later test their memory, they wrote.
5071
The pint-sized brunette may be busy filming for her new show, as well as modelling in her new Garnier Ambre Solaire campaign, but she's managed to fit designing a new fashion range into her hectic schedule.
5072
Mountaineering instructor Chris Harling, 41, from Keswick, Cumbria, has spoken of the terrifying moment he felt the ground 'turn to jelly under his feet' after the earthquake hit Mount Everest .
5073
Portsmouth Crown Court, pictured, heard Mr Warren paid Davis £30-a-week to help him around the house .
'She said he must have been confused and he was a drinker.'
5074
Immigrants and their descendants will account for 75.5 per cent of the nation's population growth between 2010 and 2050 and 82 per cent of growth between 2010 and 2060.
5075
Teena Nemelka, right, mother of Private First Class Aaron Nemelka who was killed during the attack by Major Nidal Hasan in the 2009 Fort Hood shooting, looks down at her son's Purple Heart .
5076
Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti is facing a midfield selection conundrum for Wednesday's La Liga match across town at Rayo Vallecano as the European champions look to keep up the pressure on leaders Barcelona.
5077
The figures were unveiled in a Freedom of Information Act request by Press Gazette to 435 city, district and borough councils to which 405 replied with information about their communications staff.
5078
The reportedly painful method involves participants placing their mouth over the opening of a cup, jar or other narrow vessel and sucking in until the air vacuum causes their lips to swell up - all in the hopes of emulating Kylie Jenner's bee-stung pout.
5079
Scroll down for video .
Tourists were rushed off Liberty Island today following a bomb threat resulting in a suspicious package being found.
5080
Bay Area:
Many areas along State Route 94 in San Diego County have high rates of collisions where the highway runs through wildlife habitat.
5081
When officers tracked down the couple and pulled them over at a stoplight, Mr Roepcke allegedly said that he was just having some fun, and that he didn't know it was illegal to point a laser at people, reported the station WFTV.
5082
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho believes he is improving in every aspect of his job but insisted his one problem is that he cannot help but be truthful when he addresses the media.
5083
Pelvic organ prolapse, or POP, occurs when tissue supporting the pelvic organs – including the womb – becomes weak, typically after childbirth (file image)
5084
He immediately received a buzz from Simon Cowell before he was joined on stage by hosts Ant and Dec as they played I Just Called To Say I Love You by Stevie Wonder .
5085
Socialist MP Guillaume Garot, the author of the study, said while the popular US practice was previously 'unthinkable' for snooty diners and chefs, a change in attitudes could save France up to €20 billion (£14 billion) a year.
5086
The educators fed answers to students or erased and changed the answers on tests after they were turned in to secure promotions or up to $5,000 each in bonuses, the court was told.
5087
London Broncos are set to give a debut to Leeds teenager Elliot Minchella, who has joined them on loan to the end of the season.
5088
What ensued was a night to forget for the former Chelsea man as he encountered ex-Liverpool ace Luis Suarez in an especially audacious mood for the Catalans, who take a 3-1 lead to the Nou Camp after the Uruguayan's deadly double.
5089
Hill scored his first Barclays Premier League goal in Tuesday's 3-3 draw at Aston Villa, a result which denied QPR the chance to climb out of the bottom three.
5090
Mr Arwani blamed the atrocities carried out by the Assad regime on its supposed abandonment of Islam, saying that from the 1960s the government 'started to implement atheism, and take off Islam from the life of the people'.
5091
They found that more than 500 women who had been treated with tamoxifen, and those that had drunk at least two cups of coffee a day, had only half the risk of their cancer returning than those who drank less coffee, or none at all.
5092
Smartphones are the most common internet-enabled device, at 1.7 per household, followed by laptops (1.3) and tablets (1.2), the YouGov poll of more than 2,000 consumers found.
5093
'I had to watch it a couple of times and be like, this guy is in my apartment and looking at my stuff,' said the woman (above)
5094
The 55-year-old had his licence was cancelled in 2013 after a string of similar complaints, including suggesting to a client he impregnate her as a means of getting a work permit.
5095
The campaign aimed to highlight that by having your own vehicle you can make the journey from Edinburgh to the Isle of Skye in your own time and enjoy easy access to some of the most spectacular areas of natural beauty along the way.
5096
But unfortunately for Devine, it wasn't actually the hand shaking gesture that's become popular recently - the flanker and former Australian captain was actually doing sign language for a friend, which Pocock pointed out in reply.
5097
He said: 'The next Conservative government will extend the right-to-buy to all housing association tenants in this country – 1.3million extra families – a new generation given the security of a home of their own.'
5098
New Milford officer Daniel DeMarco, of Lodi, was arrested in an Elmwood Park car lot at 2.45pm on Friday for possession of one bag of crack cocaine, a hypodermic syringe and drug paraphernalia, Elmwood Park Police said.
5099
The world No 99, who switched allegiance from Slovenia to Britain last month, knocked out fellow qualifier Arthur De Greef, of Belgium, 6-2, 6-3 in just 70 minutes.
5100
But when the Duke of Wellington 's forces defeated and killed Tipu Sultan, the Tiger of Mysore, in 1799, troops plundered the city and the palace, returning to Britain with gold, jewellery, arms, armour, clothing and even Tipu's grand throne.
5101
Ms Scott's grief-stricken fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley was supported by loved ones to release yellow balloons into the air to commemorate her life at a memorial on what would have been their wedding day .
5102
The High Court has since overturned a gagging order against Ms Watson who claims Rojo (left) and his representatives were behind a plot to frame her .
5103
The former England footballer launched the scathing attack on the head of Ukip after leaders from each of the seven largest parties went head-to-head for the first time in the historic TV election debate.
5104
Potchen had lost his job,  lost his place to stay and spent a night in the woods before deciding to rob a bank in Indiana with a note on the back of his resume .
5105
The Frenchman is sometimes fantastic, often frustrating and always flamboyant but he brought all the good parts of his game to bear as he knocked Roger Federer out of the Monte Carlo Masters 6-4, 7-6 in a thrilling last-16 encounter.
5106
'I've never known anything like it in football and I've played for teams scrapping for their lives - Millwall last year - and teams that have been promoted.
5107
According to Tulsa Police, Harris had met an undercover officer to sell him a 9 mm semi-automatic pistol and 300 rounds ammunition and ran when deputies tried to arrest him, then fought with another deputy when he was shot.
5108
Scottish comedian Limmy has horrified fans by posting a video of a massive spider crawling out of his mouth and inching its way across his face.
5109
Within minutes, the little wasp hunter made a startling discovery when he stumbled across the gigantic two-year-old nest near a creek bank after following a trail of wasps.
5110
North left the field unconscious after scoring the second of two tries in Saints' win, with Wasps forward Nathan Hughes sent off for dangerous play as the Wales wing touched down.
5111
'I thought I hit the ball well.
Graeme Dott plays a shot during his match against Ricky Walden during the Betfred World Championships .
5112
Umpire Steve Davis dropped a bit of a clanger in the afternoon.
Umpire Steve Davis dropped a bit of a clanger in the afternoon with his lbw call on Buttler .
5113
Jose Mourinho's men are 10 points clear going into the game this weekend but Parlour believes signing Cech in the summer can help Arsenal overcome the Blues next year.
5114
Residents of Beckley Club Estates in Dallas, Texas, say that they saw a man approach a male peacock, who was in the middle of its mating ritual and had unfurled its full plumage, before quickly snatching him up on Saturday.
5115
In March, Moody, 25, was sentenced to 10 days in jail on the incest charge, but got credit for time already served and did not have to serve any additional days behind bars .
5116
The gyro-copter flown by Doug Hughes lies on the West Lawn of the Capitol building in Washington D.C after he landed it there on Wednesday afternoon .
5117
Spending time with Pele did not disappoint.
Liverpool midfielder Philippe Coutinho (left) described it as the 'ultimate honour' to speak to Brazil icon Pele .
5118
It is a common misconception that we need less sleep as we get older - in fact we need just as much, the problem is that older people find it harder to reach a deeper sleep.
5119
The Championship club say three cars were broken into and damaged within the Richard Dunn Sports Centre car park, situated opposite the Provident Stadium, Odsal, and the Bulls are appealing for witnesses.
5120
Visit site .
President Obama and the first lady greeted participants at the White House before the annual White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday .
President Obama, first lady Michelle Obama, with dogs Bo (top) and Sunny (bottom), and the Easter Bunny joined participants before the annual White House Easter Egg Roll in Washington on Monday .
5121
The pillars in the star-forming region surrounding Westerlund 2, composed of dense gas, are a few light-years tall and point to the central cluster.
5122
All gone: Majnaric is distraught after city officials tore down his backyard house built to house 200 pigeons _ five times as many as allowed under city rules .
5123
In 2009 Suchet was overcome as he told presenters how his wife had been unaware she had the illness, or that he was on TV talking about it .
5124
Manchester City striker Natasha Flint bagged a first-half hat-trick as the Young Lions squad came from a goal down to secure an impressive victory at Seaview.
5125
After teasing fans with some pre-release pieces, the Big Brother star and glamour model has unveiled her collection with Honeyz.com in full.
5126
Brian Klawiter posted a message on his company's Facebook page on Tuesday in which he announced that openly gay people are not welcome at his business because he considers homosexuality to be wrong.
5127
The Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route opened to the public on today and allows tourists to view the spectacular snow-walled passageway along the 1000ft section.
5128
Dawson City, epicentre of the Gold Rush, was the largest city in Western Canada back in 1898 .
Wendy pans for gold.. and finds a precious nugget .
5129
The 71-year-old man and 64-year-old woman were charged with unlawfully possessing a firearm after a police search found a rifle and ammunition in a home in Bundaberg on Thursday.
5130
Global demand for beef, like the steak above, is expected to soar to 181 million tonnes by 2050 but Mr Gates says that it should be possible to meet this as some of the environmental impacts of meat are overstated .
5131
But  18-month-old Lexi leaped into action and jumped with all fours onto the centre of Alan's back -dislodging the onion and saving her owner's life .
5132
Jia Binhui, who cannot afford hospital treatment, hopes his home-made alternative treatment will fight the deadly disease .
'Let's see if it works.'
5133
On the Gregorian calendar, used in the UK, Easter Sunday always falls on the first Sunday after the Paschal full moon .
5134
It found nearly 250 cases of malignant melanoma are registered each year by those working outside in industries such as construction, agriculture and leisure.
5135
Tony Abbott, whose conservative government introduced a military-led operation to turn back boats carrying asylum-seekers before they reach Australia, said harsh measures are the only way to stop deaths .
5136
Parma pulled off the biggest surprise of the season as the crisis-hit club beat runaway leaders Juventus 1-0 in Serie A, inflicting what was only the second defeat of the campaign for Massimiliano Allegri's side.
5137
Caron Wyn Jones, father of Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones, underwent a hip operation at a private clinic in Bridgend (file photo) Last night, Monmouth Tory MP David Davies said the move 'made a mockery' of Carwyn Jones's championing of the Welsh NHS.
5138
Australian Customers and Border Protection Services maintain that involuntarily returning illegal maritime arrival detainees is consistent with Australia's obligations.
5139
In a tribute on Facebook, Stossel added that Fredinburg was 'one of the most wonderful human beings any of us would have the pleasure of knowing'
When we do, we leave behind our stories.
'Those stories are told and passed on, impacting the lives of others until they are stories (stories stories).
5140
Chelsea are 10 points clear at the top of the table but are only the third-highest payers with a wage bill of £192.7million behind Manchester United (£215.8m) and Manchester City (£205m).
5141
We have players who have come from League One and other teams in the Championship, a lot of young players, and we are fighting with the best teams in the Championship.
5142
The Mighty Boosh star Noel Fielding advertised Vodafone while Happy Valley star Sally Lindsay has put her Stockport accent to good use in ads for Sainsbury's, Bet 365 and Aardman .
5143
Police have released photos of 13 people they are trying to track down as they hunt for the fans who threw bottles at NRL referees during the Good Friday clash between the Bulldogs and Rabbitohs.
5144
Colin Turnbull (left), 69, was caught having sex with 'model' Rozina Khanim (pictured left and right) in a classroom at a £13,000-a-year Catholic private school in Birmingham .
5145
Tamworth, 403km north of Sydney, was revealed to have the most number of firearm licences - 3259 - with Bathurst, 200km west of Sydney, a close second at 3075.
5146
O'Sullivan (left) holds an overnight 7-2 first-round lead against Craig Steadman (right) World Championship (5): 2001, 2004, 2008, 2012, 2013.
5147
Brennan, 36, will be charged with possession of a destructive device, and one part possession of components capable of making a component device, while Young, 27, is facing charges for being in possession of illegal possession of bomb-making materials.
5148
Ferrari team principal Maurizio Arrivabene has urged Kimi Raikkonen to prove himself if he wants to remain with the Maranello marque.
5149
Little Jiaojiao only survived because rain canopies, laundry racks and wet grass broke her fall in Zheng Du City, Central China.
5150
A male participant recorded the highest core temperature of 40°C (104°F), while seven volunteers' temperature reached 39°C (103°F), the scientists said.
5151
Kevin Franklin, of Dunstable, Bedfordshire, says he will switch his lights on every evening in April for Autism Awareness Month.
5152
Labour leader Ed Miliband will allow Scotland to set a more generous benefits system than the rest of the UK if he becomes Prime Minister.
5153
It went from bad to worse for the visitors when Westwood was sin-binned following the concession of three consecutive penalties by his team and the Vikings immediately took advantage of the extra man when Brown went through a gap for a fifth try.
5154
The Easter Feast is made of half a Cadbury's chocolate egg; baked caremelised white chocolate; kosher cereal from Israel; Toffee crisp cereal; home-made brownie; Creme Egg; Mini Eggs; Flake; dulce de leche; salted caramel sauce; three milks; marshmallows and M&M's .
5155
Kayonna holds her hand steady and remains calm as the tarantula removes its fangs from her skin .
‘This species of tarantula has low toxicity venom similar to that of a bee sting.'
5156
This season he has been imperious, full of movement and flexibility as Chelsea close in on a double of Capital One Cup and Premier League in Jose Mourinho's second season back at Stamford Bridge.
5157
Becky Handley said her father Raymond Handley should be 'hanged' for sexually assaulting a girl, eight.
Miss Handley now wants to change her name via deed poll .
5158
Owner Sarah Styler was taking Silver for his morning walk when she spotted TV crews gathered outside the church hall close to her house in Cheltenham where Mr Cameron was giving his speech .
5159
The quarry had been abandoned for years.
No foul play:
The quarry was adjacent to his family's home and had been abandoned for years .
5160
U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth announced the sentences after a day-long hearing at which defense lawyers had argued for leniency, and prosecutors asked that those sentences - the minimums mandatory under the law - be made even harsher.
5161
A black man has come out in support of police body cameras after he was gunned down by a white officer during a traffic stop and writhed in agony on the ground saying: 'Why did you shoot me sir?'
5162
Taking part on Channel Four's 'Alan Carr's Chatty Man' alongside Denise van Outen, Noel Fielding and Lethal Bizzle, the on-loan Manchester City star spoke of his support and feels that football in evolving for the better.
5163
Why, though, would City expect their first team players to work for an interim coach any more than they would a man, Pellegrini, who has, after all, won a Premier League and League Cup during his time in Manchester?
5164
Steve claims that these interventions, including obesity wardens in the street, fat warning signs outside fast food restaurants and Steve moving in with public role models who are overweight, could save the country and the NHS millions .
5165
Keaway Lafonz Ivy, who went by the stage name Kealo, died from a single gunshot wound to the chest after being struck by a bullet in the area of 62nd Place and Eastern Avenue in Seat Pleasant Wednesday night.
5166
Denesh Ramdin, seen here in action against England, will skipper the side for the three-Test series .
5167
Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts reported for jury duty in Rockville, Maryland on Wednesday - and was not selected.
Solemn duty:
5168
Dr Omar Saadi Al-Atraqchi could be struck off after he admitted secretly filming men in the gym showers by cutting a hole in Lynx shampoo bottles and concealing his iPhone inside before he put bottles into cubicles .
5169
Indonesia's HM Prasetyo said the pair would be executed soon and there would be no more delays as their latest court challenge failed .
It's finished,' he said.
5170
Leicester boss Richard Cockerill believes that this season's Aviva Premiership play-off race will run until the final day of regular league season action.
5171
An EE spokesman said: 'Starting today, iPhone customers on EE can make and receive high quality calls over WiFi and send text messages, using their own phone number with no need to use an app - great for when a mobile signal is unavailable.'
5172
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) published advice for England and Wales in December which told parents there was a strong link between co-sleeping and cot death, or Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.
5173
The collection is said to be a celebratory nod to the excessive glamour of the Eighties and features bold Indian Pinks, Buttercup Yellows and Electric Blues against a backdrop of Zampatti's signature black and white tailored pieces.
5174
'Flash playboy' Danny Lambo posing with girlfriend Natasha Flynn inside her £10,000 Easter gift - a chocolate bath .
It was all I knew.
5175
'We did this for him,' Mike Upright said.
For their dad: 'We did it solely to do something nice and honorable for our dad,' said his daughter Jill McLain .
5176
Mayweather counts Justin Bieber (above) and Lil Wayne among his celebrity fans.
$340 million (£228m) $5 million (£3.4m), including Nike and Nestle .
5177
Ten pieces produces capsule collection of ten pieces of unisex clothing designed to be worn in 20 ways .
The androgynous wares are designed to be worn by both sexes .
5178
(sic)
More critical comments came from Matthew Pill who said: 'As of KFC paid a food stylist to make this burger look like dog food.'
5179
Victims at an Australian orphanage have told of the horrific abuse they suffered at the hands of the priests and nuns who ran the institution from claims of being raped by a broom handle to being forced to drink their own urine.
5180
'Yeah, now run,' said one of the group of men watching and filming the shark as it displayed the full range of its agility in pursuit of the fish, perhaps a small stingray, one of the species' favourite foods.
5181
The 24-year-old, who can play either at wing or centre, joins Alan Solomons' side on a two-year deal which takes him through to May 2017.
5182
Denmark captain and Brondby defender Daniel Agger is to be investigated by the country's FA after allegedly elbowing FC Copenhagen's Mattias Jorgensen in a hotly-contested derby on Monday.
5183
'Leanna Norris put black Gorilla [duct] tape on Loh Grenda's mouth and nose; that Leanna Norris put a blanket over Loh Grenda's face so she would not have to look at Loh's eyes,' the affidavit reportedly said.
5184
'We don't wait until the end of the season because you know if there is a player who is left one season of his contract then you have to do something,' he said.
5185
1. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 68 . 2. Sebastian Vettel (Ferrari) 55 .
He again finished the race at a relatively low speed as marshals failed to clear Max Verstappen’s crippled Toro Rosso.
5186
4. Santorini, Greece .
Europe's best island, according to TripAdvisor users, is Santorini, Greece, which was also named fourth best in the world .
5187
HIV antibodies previously tested in humans had shown disappointing results, but the antibody tested at Rockefeller University belongs to a new generation of broadly neutralising antibodies that potently fight a wide range of HIV strains.
5188
Sportsmail have teamed up with Golfbidder to offer one lucky reader the chance to win a bundle of Callaway golf clubs and accessories worth more than £1,300.
5189
Day (pictured left with a friend) claimed £16,500 of income support and disability allowance despite having £27,000 in savings .
5190
Transport for London (TFL) has revealed that the controversial posters around the London Underground, featuring a bikini-clad model called Renee Somerfield are being removed.
5191
They also made clear that Kate, who has been staying at the couple’s new country home in Norfolk, Anmer Hall, plans to return to the capital soon and intends to give birth at the Lindo Wing of St Mary’s Hospital, where a natural birth costs up to £10,000.
5192
The Labour candidate started swaying on his feet in front of worried audience members before collapsing in front of presenter Ellie Pitt and his opponents on Made in Bristol's programme, Decision Made.
5193
Also owns Beats Music, which offers unlimited listening for $10 a month, with no free version.
Google Play Music service offers unlimited listening for $10 a month, with no free option.
5194
Ander Herrera celebrates scoring the first goal for Manchester United during the 3-1 win over Aston Villa .
Even when I was not playing, I was also happy.
5195
Beech-Nut Nutrition said in a statement 'We have initiated a voluntary recall for our Classics Stage 2 Sweet Potato & Chicken following a single report of a small glass piece found in a jar of the product.'
5196
Another accomplice, university student Mohammad Aadil, 21, of Leeds, admitted money laundering and was sentenced to a community order for one year and 150 hours unpaid work.
5197
Lipscomb police chief Warren Carey (right) was trying to arrest Mayor Lance McDade (left), who refused to leave his office, when the fight broke out on Friday, according to a city clerk .
5198
Thankfully Joel's big sister, Phoebe, five, adores her brother and makes sure he is thoroughly looked after - she helps him put on his shoes, fasten up his coat and even helps fetch him his cereals in the morning.
5199
Antiquities looted from ancient temples and Buddhist sites in India have been found on display at the Honolulu Museum of Art after a tourist spotted they were sourced from an art dealer facing charges in India.
5200
A wheel even comes off before the car finally comes to a halt.
The unidentified man verse wildly across the dividing line .
5201
Vets are urging the public to get their dogs checked out for ticks, which can spread potentially fatal diseases - such as Lyme disease - to humans .
5202
The 19-year-old midfielder impressed for the Gunners last season, but his progress has been stunted by a serious knee injury.
5203
The suite's VIP guests will also receive exclusive access to the Nation Riviera Beach Club, which sits along 200 metres of private beachfront.
5204
Twenty-one-year-old Carter and 24-year-old McCassin (photographed) were taken to a hospital, where they were treated for an apparent heroin overdose .
5205
Everton (4-2-3-1): Howard 6.5; Coleman 6, Stones 6, Jagielka 6.5, Baines 6.5; McCarthy 6.5, Barry 7; Lennon 6.5, Barkley 6 (Mirallas 86), Osman 6 (Pienaar 28, 6); Kone 5 (Naismith 76)
5206
The 30-year-old installed a tracker app on her smartphone and brutally attacked her when she visited him at the Commando Training Centre at Lympstone, Devon, and at her home, the court was told .
5207
Those living in first-floor apartments at the Guardian Court apartments were ordered to evacuate, while second-floor residents could decide to leave .
5208
The Rockstar bag includes an inflatable guitar, toy trilby and some items including a tinsel hair clip the site lists as worth $395, giving the bag a total retail value of $413.70 for the bargain price of $10.
5209
A 32-year-old man has now been arrested and charged with murder after he told police where to find the body parts.
Mr Price died last year.
5210
By 2030 up to 170 million hectares (420 million acres) of forest - equivalent to the combined size of Germany, France, Spain and Portugal - could be lost in just 11 hotspots, including the Amazon (shown) and eastern Australia, conservationists have warned .
5211
Masters champion Jordan Spieth is back to work this week at the RBC Heritage Classic after two days celebrating his victory at Augusta National and being showered with attention.
5212
Heartwarming:
The piglet has to use extraordinary balance to stand on its front trotters while all its siblings were born with all four legs .
5213
Mr Keenan's toes, which eventually had to be amputated after he caught frostbite from living in a tent during winter after being evicted from his home .
5214
On day one, after manoeuvring our rented boat into sheltered waters off Kastani beach, I cut the throttle and my girlfriend threw out the anchor.
5215
18-year-old Ryan Heritage from Wiltshire posted a obnoxious message on Trowbridge police's page, saying: 'Oi yo check if there's a warrant for my arrest, if so good luck!!!'
5216
Many people are still ignorant of the dangers of eating chicken despite campaigns to highlight risks, a report says (file picture)
5217
Knox played as a non-competing marker with McIlroy when the Northern Irishman was first man out in the third round last year.
I guess that helped.’
5218
Dr Adrian Quarterman has suggested space lasers could be used to power homes in the future - but says the beams will be nowhere near as powerful as imagined in films like Star Wars (pictured)
5219
Last year Mr Davey's predecessor Roger Wright dismissed as 'complete nonsense' claims that the station was dumbing down and said there were distinct differences between the stations.
5220
Doctors hope to be able to drill nasal passages in Eli's skull which will allow him to breathe when he is older.
5221
The amount of time people spend listening to BBC radio has dropped to its lowest level ever, the corporation’s boss has admitted.
5222
Phillips set up another two goals for Chris Ramsey's side in their 3-3 draw with Aston Villa on Tuesday night, taking his tally for 2015 - and the season - to seven.
5223
Manchester United players celebrate Chris Smalling's goal during their 4-2 victory ove Manchester City .
Ander-nother one comes good .
5224
Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood last night ordered an inquiry into claims that a leaked memo shows SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon wants David Cameron to win the Election.
5225
As well as travelling teaching their masterclass, Lyndall (left) runs Aurora Spas and a training college, while Shannah (right) life coaches high profile athletes such as Brett Lee, but say they 'don't do stress'
5226
Nagobads was team doctor for the famous 'Miracle on Ice' team that won Olympic gold in 1980 and that inspired the 2004 movie 'Miracle' Nagobads said that he bled heavily while behind the wheel of his car and risked being stopped by a cop.
5227
Jeremy Clarkson was seen out for a drink with friends last night, stopping at pub in west London after meeting with former Top Gear co-presenters Richard Hammond and James May, as well as producer Andy Wilman .
5228
Liam Stewart, the ice hockey playing son of rock star Rod Stewart and former model Rachel Hunter, has seen his hopes of making his senior Great Britain debut ended by injury.
5229
Hundreds of stolen items from shoes to handbags were discovered by police in a raid on the one-bedroom home of serial offender Christine Carriage in November 2013 .
5230
Advisers to President Tomislav Nikolic (left, pictured in February in Belgrade) described being 'thrown around the cabin' when a plane taking him to Italy last week began tumbling through the sky .
5231
Police say the 38-year-old suspect stripped down to his underwear and spent 10-15 minutes swimming in chest-deep water, with officers waiting for him on north and south sides of the creek.
5232
The Eshima Ohashi bridge in Japan – the third largest of its kind in the world – rises sharply so ships can pass underneath.
2. Millau Viaduct - France .
5233
Mr Clarkson says his  savoury-sweet mix is a hit with customers, who have taken to dipping chips into the Creme Egg yolk, much like traditional toast soldiers .
5234
But the dismissal of her case states that Rutherford failed to argue why the federal court should intervene in her custody dispute with Giersch.
5235
Tottenham players have taken a while to get used to it, longer than it took Southampton players when Pochettino was first in charge.
5236
Smith lives to fight another day on 59 and it should be pointed out that he too was in West Indies side that famous day in 2003 when history was made on this island.
5237
The Houston Texans defensive tackle released the video as part of his announcement that he has signed an endorsement deal with Reebok .
5238
For decades, sheds have a been a place that men build at the bottom of the garden so they have a place to be alone.
Read on for some inspiration...
5239
The desperate predator looked to be getting in difficulty as she struggled to take down the tall animal.
'Two one-year-olds came and followed her but added no help.
5240
Scholes believes outgoing Borussia Dortmund manager Jurgen Klopp would be a welcome addition to the Premier League – but does not believe he will replace Manuel Pellegrini at Manchester City.
5241
A pair of foxes viciously fight to the death in a battle to claim a lone Vixen.
A pair of Arctic foxes viciously fight to the death on the snow in a battle to claim a lone Vixen .
5242
A standard cottage at Yab Yum Resorts (0091 832 651 0392, www.yabyumresorts.com) costs from £35 a night B&B, and at Ciaran's (0091 832 264 3477, www.ciarans.com) from £40 a night.
5243
Edinburgh man Leonard H. Thomas served on the Ulster Queen on four convoys to and from Murmansk and Archangel in Russia's extreme northwest.
5244
Portugal striker Nelson Oliveira is determined to take his Swansea chance presented to him by the absence of the in-form Bafetimbi Gomis.
5245
Joachim Gauck, the German president pictured (above) during the ceremony, said the British soldiers who liberated the camp were 'ambassadors of a democratic culture'
5246
And it takes a lot for a track to make the cut.
Phantogram (left) and The xx (right) are two of the featured artists on American Airlines new cabin playlists .
5247
A NSW property in a bushfire danger area, that was caught in the 2013 fires, is currently advertised for $185,000 - $60,000 more than the Gibbs' paid for their New Zealand home .
5248
Several people who had gone to the buffet for an Easter meal posted tweets expressing their shock at the incident .
I was in shock …
5249
‘The reality is, like everywhere you go, people talk about how you play.
‘The bottom line is the game is about winning games of football.
5250
In an interview with Nine Network's A Current Affair, Wayne Heneker recalled the day he was going about his usual drop off of funds at a local tavern in Queensland.
5251
Iniesta was replaced by Xavi at half-time, as Barcelona went on to complete a 5-1 aggregate victory that puts them in the draw for the Champions League semi-finals for the seventh time in eight years.
5252
His best stories are from his days as editor of the William Hickey gossip column in the Daily Express.
At that time, the Daily Express was owned by Lord Beaverbrook.
5253
‘He is silencing a few critics now,’ says his former Leith coach Currie, with Griffiths having grabbed his second hat-trick of the season against Dundee United on Sunday.
5254
Lalit Verma is said to have launched into a furious assault on a boy named only as Shiva after the stolen items were discovered in the boy's bag at Dwarika Prasad School in Railamau village (pictured)
5255
'I have played alongside Sam with Wales for a good couple of years now and it is always strange coming up against somebody who is normally a team-mate, but regardless of that Burnley is a tough place to go,' Davies said on Tottenham's official website.
5256
Another ad for DAKS trousers, which featured in a magazine in 1975, shows a couple wearing more clothes - this time they're a vision of beige, caramel and brown in tweed jackets.
5257
John Carver says he and Jonas Gutierrez have shaken hands and moved on from the training-ground bust-up which saw the player dropped for Sunday’s defeat by Spurs.
5258
And it seems to have rung true on the stats front.
Fabregas laid on an assist for Costa in Chelsea's 3-2 win over Hull City, but that was his first in five games .
5259
Working hard: Daniel is working with a mental health therapist, a physical therapist, and a nutritionist to lose weight and recover from myriad health problems .
5260
However, Woolaston was caught after breaking into the University's bio-sciences lab and leaving behind a bag containing a previous police charge sheet, with his name and address written on it .
5261
The mother-to-be, whose name is Injaz, was cloned from the ovarian cells of a slaughtered camel in 2009 and born from a  surrogate mother.
5262
Eating peanut kernels without their skins can improve gut health and the ability to ward off bugs like E.coli, according to research by the University of Maryland .
5263
Expressive: 'I said, "What? Is that the fire?!"' the adorable tot said while waving his hands in the air .
'I just said, "I hate that fire!"
5264
Police were called to a reported break in at a house in Hagerstown, Maryland (pictured) before using a Taser on a black man who was staggering around outside .
5265
The Rhinos simply oozed confidence on the back of their five-match winning run while Saints looked fragile as the one-time leaders crashed to a fourth defeat in their last five matches.
5266
Karen Gaynor appeared at Rotherham Magistrates Court accused of causing criminal damage by pruning the tree, after a complaint was made by her next door neighbour Kay Daye, as part of a long-running boundary dispute.
5267
'Clearly, we feel that SFA and other Clubs involved should have taken a common sense approach to this matter in the interests of fairness for our supporters and to ensure attendances at the matches are as high as possible.'
5268
'I think it's a good thing for the club that it has settled down now and the EGM is out of the way and the people can get involved with running the football club,' said Smith.
5269
Miss Harman says a Labour government would legislate to allow grandparents as well as parents, or those with legal responsibility, to access the leave .
5270
Yaya Toure was accused by Jamie Carragher of ducking out of the way of Jason Puncheon's free-kick which killed off Manchester City's hopes of salvaging something from Selhurst Park.
5271
Holly Hagan is the fourth Geordie Shore girl to dramatically lose weight, she had even posted a picture of herself trying out a waist trainer to Instagram (left)
5272
Norris-Jones was handed a 20-month jail sentence, suspended for two years, at Guildford Crown Court (above) and will have to wear an electronic ankle bracelet enforcing a strict 12-month curfew .
5273
The woman said Mr Dewar lay down at her feet, told her to sing for him, asked her for a massage and swore at her when she questioned his actions (stock image)
5274
Somerset's new limited-overs captain Alfonso Thomas has agreed to coach Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League this month.
5275
Ms Conman challenged the man (pictured left and writing in grey) when she found the messages on Abbie's Facebook (Abbie's messages in blue)
5276
He spent a season at the Nou Camp in 2009/10.
Ibrahimovic spent just one season at the Nou Camp before moving to Serie A giants Inter Milan .
5277
Liam Dawe died at Derriford Hospital (pictured) in Plymouth, Devon, in March last year from 'intra-abdominal sepsis' after developing cerebral palsy following the assault .
'In June 1996, there was a law change to the "Year and a Day" rule which stated an act was presumed not to have caused a person's death if more than a year and a day had elapsed before death.
5278
The Great Escape:
One of the most prized items is the cane (left) used by Hammond in Jurassic Park, which is estimated to sell for £5,000.
5279
A man has been jailed after fathering a child with his own daughter who he raped repeatedly from when she was aged just 10 (file image)
5280
Bryan was previously sentenced to two years and four months in a young offenders' institution in 2012 after pleading guilty to eight counts of supplying heroin and cocaine at the Inner London Crown Court.
5281
Clive Howard, 57, (left)  dubbed 'every woman's living nightmare', was today jailed for life and one of his victim's, Jessica Howard, 23, (right) who has bravely waived her right to anonymity .
5282
Alessandro Diamanti and Mohamed Salah helped Fiorentina to a 2-0 win over Sampdoria on a rain-drenched pitch which lifted their team into fourth place on 49 points.
5283
In 2000 three decades of anguish for the mothers of Susan Blatchford, 11, and Gary Hanlon, 12, came to an emotional close as paedophile Ronald Jebson, who was already in jail for another murder, finally admitted raping and strangling them.
5284
Once again UEFA's second club competition has thrown up an interesting mix in the last four, and today Sevilla, Napoli, Fiorentina and Dnipro will all learn who they face in the semi-finals of the Europa League.
5285
But Webster walked free from court after magistrates sitting in Slough, Berkshire, ordered him to complete a sexual offences treatment programme, as part of a three year community order.
5286
Studies show that the more people are exposed to different body types, the more they like them; Lillian hopes exposing her audience to a fuller figure will change their perceptions .
5287
In December 2014 self-confessed cereal obsessives Alan and Gary Keery launched the UK’s first cereal cafe featuring 120 cereals, 20 types of toppings and 12 varieties of milk.
5288
It is now 17 goals for the season and Barcelona's front three, spearheaded by Suarez, Lionel Messi and Neymar is the most in-form in world football.
5289
A police van outside the home of Anthony and Janet Mann in Nuneaton after Mr Mann stabbed his sick wife to death after she begged him to bring her suffering to an end .
5290
Terminally ill fundraiser Simon Mitchell, 44, (pictured left with Richard Hammond and right with Katie Price) stole  from Donna's Dream House, a charity for terminally ill children based in Blackpool, Lancashire .
5291
The cardboard gnome featured alongside a host of celebrities and historic figures including actress Diana Dors, singer Bob Dylan and actor Marlon Brando on the psychedelic cover of the ground-breaking 1967 album.
5292
Dozens more company bosses have signed a letter backing Tory economic plans – including prominent former Labour supporter Simon Woodroffe, the founder of Yo! Sushi .
5293
Donna Hussey, 32 (right), has been targeted on Facebook and branded a 'bad mum' by trolls who blame her for the death of her son Freddie (left) - who was killed when a runaway trailer crushed him against a wall .
5294
Other winners included Amelia Heinle, best supporting actress in a drama series for The Young and the Beautiful, and Chad Duell, best supporting actor for General Hospital.
5295
He was remanded in custody and will reappear in court on June 10 .
He was remanded in custody and will reappear in court on June 10.
5296
A week later the gang struck two neighbouring homesin Putney, including one £4.6million house, taking jewellery worth £38,700, and a Porsche Cayenne worth £75,000.
5297
His two passengers - brothers Haider, 20, and Taimur Kayani, 17, from Leytonstone, were killed in the collision on Lodge Avenue, Dagenham.
5298
In 2012, Matthew Ho from Toronto promposed to his girlfriend, Tina, with 1,500 pink helium balloons and a sign that read, 'Tina, will you go to prom with me?'
5299
Accused: Former NFL cornerback Will Allen and his business partner are facing civil fraud charges from federal regulators over allegations the pair ran a multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme (file photo)
5300
Ashley James, who starred in Made In Chelsea, models the bold collection in a new set of images.
Ashley James, who starred on Made In Chelsea, models the bold new Jessica collection .
5301
'I think the Rolling Stone absolutely should be held accountable', he said in a TV interview Monday, and added the under-fire magazine has risked its reputation by not disciplining Sabrina Erdley, the reporter who wrote the story.
5302
Once installed the free app uses the phone's accelerometer to track the user's stride, it then searches for songs in the Spotify library with matching beats per minute.
5303
Rooney is asked by Little Dec: 'Does it get annoying when people say "Rooney, Rooney, Rooney"?'
'But if I'm in the street and people are doing it then it is annoying.'
5304
Nasser Hussain believes the sacking of Cook as one-day captain was a slow and protracted affair .
We have been behind it for far too long.
5305
Accused: The 22-year-old accused of stabbing Indiana Pacers forward Chris Copeland and two women in an early morning altercation Wednesday, Shezoy Bleary, is seen leaving New York City's 10th police precinct .
5306
'Plus-size fashion is evolving and becoming more stylish, and it's great as my collection is all about embracing your curves and feeling confident,' Gemma tells us.
5307
Van Gaal was particularly impressed by Ings’ performance against United at Old Trafford in February when he scored in Burnley’s 3-1 defeat.
5308
As Patrick Bamford fired home his 19th Middlesbrough goal of the season on Tuesday night, there was one question on everybody’s lips: can he make the grade at Chelsea next season?
5309
Porto coach Julen Lopetegui does not believe that Bayern Munich's extensive injury list will a leading role in Wednesday's Champions League quarter-final meeting.
5310
Mrs Schneider Williams, Williams' third wife, is in a battle with his three children from previous marriages – Zak, Zelda and Cody – over his £33million estate.
5311
Chris Schuhmacher, who is serving a life sentence for stabbing to death a friend that stole a suitcase of marijuana from his apartment 12 years ago, is another star student, now developing a fitness app.
5312
The pilot had written a 148 character text within 25 seconds - something the Air Accident Investigation Branch said would require 'considerable dexterity especially in an aircraft that may have been out of control'
5313
The goat, which was not injured in the incident, was captured by three policemen in the wealthy suburb around 6pm Saturday (pictured)
5314
Trim a half-inch of the lower stem so that water can be absorbed freely.
The most popular spring flowers are daffodils - the messengers of spring - and tulips.
5315
This is the 'disgusting' serving of baked potato and corned beef served to an 81-year-old woman living in sheltered housing .
5316
Police ignored the sexual abuse of hundreds of young girls because they were too busy chasing Labour crime targets that would earn bonuses for senior staff (picture posed by model)
5317
Borussia Dortmund have moved swiftly to secure Thomas Tuchel as the successor to Jurgen Klopp, after he announced he was bringing the curtain down on his seven-year stay at the club this week.
5318
Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti said on Monday that the European champions would take stock of Hernandez's situation at the end of the season.
5319
Former spokesman for the Glazer family, Tehsin Nayani (left), has written the 'The Glazer Gatekeeper' Sir Bobby Charlton talks with Bryan Glazer, Joel Glazer and Avram Glazer (L-R) at Old Trafford in 2005 .
5320
Snooker star Ronnie O'Sullivan has revealed what goes through his mind while he's waiting for his opponent to finish at the table - and it's usually whether he will make it to dinner or not.
You just think to yourself: come on mate.
5321
This police dashcam video shows Arizona officer Michael Rapiejko overtaking his colleague's vehicle as they chase alleged thief Mario Valencia (hidden by the other car) in Marana, northwest of Tucson .
5322
Earlier this week Barcelona striker Luis Suarez admitted he was nervous at the prospect of playing alongside Neymar when he joined the club.
5323
The decision means Ronaldo is suspended for the game against Eibar in La Liga on Saturday — along with Toni Kroos and James Rodriguez, who were also booked — but Ancelotti wants the yellow card shown to his star forward rescinded.
5324
Taking the stand for the defense on Day 2 of the insanity phase of his trial  Dr. Doug Tucker testified that a rambling note Steele wrote about suicide and sexual relations with his wife and sister-in-law is delusional and shows Steele's brain was deteriorating because of ALS.
5325
Thousands are expected to line Dunblane High Street on the day.
I’m sure lots of people will come down to see the cars as they go past and it will be a very popular day.’
5326
Pictures were published on Sunday of him smoking a shisha pipe and a different set of images surfaced on Tuesday of Sterling and team-mate Jordon Ibe at a shisha cafe in London.
5327
United return to Premier League action when they host relegation-threatened Aston Villa on Saturday.
5328
The victim was walking to her local youth club when Nejad dragged her into his house in Caythorpe Street, Moss Side, pictured, and raped her .
5329
Most of the partygoers were moved from the scene relatively easily, but a number began to throw glass bottles, forcing police to resort to capsicum spray.
5330
On 13 minutes, Van Persie controlled a Pereira through ball just inside the 18-yard box and slotted past Fulham goalkeeper Magnus Norman to open the scoring.
5331
Red squirrels have returned to one of Britain's most stunning beauty spots after a 16-year absence .
Experts say a lack of habitats caused them to disappear from the area.
5332
An inquest into his death heard how William had been settling in well after returning to school following his mother's death.
5333
Alarmed by a rash of explosions and injuries caused when amateurs make hash oil, lawmakers in Colorado and Washington are considering spelling out what's allowed when it comes to making the concentrated marijuana at home.
5334
A British nuclear submarine suffered £500,000 damage in a collision while tracking Russian vessels, The Mail on Sunday can reveal .
5335
'Mr. Heckman and I met with Mr. Yandamuri at the prison tens and tens of times at his request over the two plus years that we were representing him.
'Mr. Heckman and I met with Mr. Yandamuri at the prison tens and tens of times at his request over the two plus years that we were representing him,' attorney Henry Hilles (pictured) said .
5336
The incident was the second one of the day for Dublin Airport, after two Ryanair planes collided while taxiing on the runway causing part of one of the winglets to be ripped off.
5337
Teenager Ben Gibson had just seen his Middlesbrough side knocked out in the Champions League group stage when the email landed from club chairman – Uncle Steve – that he had been fired.
5338
Elsewhere, 18-year-old William Handley was sentenced to eight months' hard labour and one-year's police supervision for stealing a 'dead duck' and a teapot.
5339
This week saw the opening of Centre Pompidou Malaga, the first of several popup versions of the famous Parisian gallery planned outside France.
5340
Footage shows how one of the men emerged from his black BMW with no shirt on before trying to punch  the driver of a white BMW through his car window in east London.
5341
I remembered living in this bus and I was thinking "that's actually not a bad idea, that would be a good start when we get back until we decide on something else",' Justin said.
5342
Working with his caddie in China, Watson pulled off a baseball-style shot with a driver, striking the ball as it was dropped from a height.
5343
The Ferrari also lost control not long after and both cars caused extensive damage to the guard rail and a 10 metre section of the tunnel wall.
5344
Woods' long-term girlfriend Lindsey Vonn (right) stands with Charlie as he warms up for The Masters 2015 .
'And it's finally there.'
5345
Wimbledon semi-finalist Milos Raonic and 19-year-old Australian Nick Kyrgios will make their debuts at the Aegon Championships at Queen's Club this summer.
5346
Nicola's political balancing act .
But yesterday Nicola Sturgeon was trying her best to stick to the centre – even leaning to the right at times.
5347
Liverpool captain Gerrard is joining LA Galaxy, while Lampard will meet up with new MLS franchise New York City FC.
5348
The first male headteacher at an all-girls grammar school has been sacked for 'inappropriate' and 'unprofessional' behaviour less than two years after taking up the post.
5349
It suggests temperatures at Earth's equator were -40°C (-40°F) 2.4 billion years ago (artist's illustration shown).
'These events are fascinating.
5350
Jermain Defoe's stunning strike was enough to secure a 1-0 victory for the Black Cats, who eased their relegation fears with just a third Barclays Premier League win of the season at the Stadium of Light.
5351
Jonathan Trott's first innings on his return to Test cricket for the first time in 17 months was brief and unsuccessful, as he was caught at first slip just three balls in.
5352
But when Ms Catherall called on September 13, last year, the call handler said they could not hear anything and therefore did not connect the call to the police or send help.
5353
Vincent Kompany has revealed that his mum halted a move allowing him to join Manchester United when he was just 17-years-old.
'It's different now.
5354
No victim: Michelle Knight, seen here appearing at at the Cleveland Rape Crisis Center's Faces of Change Luncheon on Wednesday, said her healing process has been 'to overcome and flourish and rise above'
5355
A bold red fox spots a deer bone on a frozen lake in Japan and begins to fight both a flock of crows and an eagle for the tasty lunch .
5356
With James Milner and Frank Lampard on the bench, Manuel Pellegrini named a team without a single English outfield player for the 16th Premier League game this season.
5357
Wells in some parts of the state are going dry as groundwater levels fall.
Wells in some parts of the state are going dry as groundwater levels fall .
5358
Arsene Wenger's side have also reached the FA Cup final for the second consecutive season after triumphing over SkyBet Championship side Reading in the semis 2-1 last weekend, with Sanchez scoring both of their goals.
5359
Interim chairman Paul Murray and director John Gilligan held talks with Ashley and other members of the Sports Direct hierarchy on Wednesday.
5360
A family have been left devastated after their four-month-old baby died from meningitis just 12 hours after laughing for the very first time.
5361
The twins, 25, who are basically inseparable at all times, prefer to be called Team FOE (Family Over Everything) Hood told police he sent a text telling the twins' mother, Thomasine (pictured) he would 'always be there for her'
5362
Better rivals came from Japan - the Nissan Sunny, Honda Civic and the Toyota Camry which became one of the world’s best selling cars of the 70s.
5363
'I know there was another fight in line for the title shot - Jacare vs Yoel Romero – but now, whoever wins out of me and Luke – deserves a title shot I think.
5364
Rangers have promised to probe claims Mike Ashley has grabbed control of the club's badges.
Rangers have promised to probe claims Mike Ashley has grabbed control of the club's badges .
5365
Owl butterflies (left) have eye spots that mimic those of pigmy owls (right) to scare off predators like great tits.
5366
Defoe has compared the feeling of scoring the winner against Newcastle to scoring at the World Cup .
'When I scored I got that same feeling as when I scored in the World Cup.
5367
The Duke’s eldest daughter Beatrice, 26, was recently criticised for taking as many as nine holidays in the space of just a few months, although she is understood to have recently accepted a job at a private equity firm in New York.
5368
Guinness offered the top flight a huge deal of £135m over three years, a £5m-a-year increase on the payments from Barclays, whose 15-year partnership with the Premier League will finish at the end of next season.
5369
Ian Guffick asked pupils at Mitton Manor Primary School in Tewkesbury, pictured, to make the changes to their SATs exam answers .
5370
Competition:
Dan Klice, 57, was officiating at a competition held at Ramapo College in Mahwah, New Jersey, pictured above .
5371
A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes in the shadow of Earth.
The light refracts differently in the atmosphere and, as it hits the moon, it makes it appear red.
5372
Marca (left) say that James Rodriguez is 'worth his weight in gold' as AS focus on Cristiano Ronaldo's appeal .
5373
Manchester City will ask about Raheem Sterling's availability even if Liverpool are likely to refuse to sell .
Dedryck Boyata and John Guidetti are also ready to move.
5374
According to the latest secret polling bombshell to hit Nigel Farage’s party, Mark Reckless, who became Ukip’s second MP last November, faces an uphill battle to hold on to his 2,920 majority on May 7.
5375
Patrick Bamford has been a huge success at Middlesborough and Chelsea have offered him a new deal .
Valencia cost West Ham £12m and signed a five year contract.
5376
The wacky and delightful Electric Groove Rider stormed down Wellington's Cuba Street at the weekend for the city's inaugural CubaDupa festival – a colourful party that shut down streets and spanned several blocks .
5377
Tracey Neville, pictured at Hotel Football in Manchester, is Phil Neville's twin and sister to Gary Neville .
But Philip would be the mediator.'
5378
Ryanair flies out of Terminal 1 at Dublin Airport, whereas Aer Lingus flies from Terminal 2, so it was clear the tweet was a joke at its rival's expense.
5379
Carlo Ancelotti must accommodate Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale and Karim Benzema and that leaves him little choice but to play a 4-3-3.
5380
Borussia Dortmund defender Mats Hummels is leaving his options open amid speculation he may leave the club in the summer as he admits he is contemplating leaving the club.
5381
Evidence:
The baby's remains have been released to the Ardena Baptist Church in Freehold, which will hold a funeral for the infant Saturday .
5382
In her new memoir, Mariel Hemingway says Woody Allen asked her to go to Paris with her after filming 'Manhattan' in 1979.
'Woody hadn't said that.
5383
An Irish tourist accused of leaving his brother in a coma after a late night argument in Sydney has pleaded guilty to recklessly causing grievous bodily harm after the crown declined to downgrade the charge.
5384
As they beep their horns the animal, named Big Boy, continues to run along the sidewalk but at one point he veers in front of the police car and over to the other side of the road.
5385
Susan Farmer, from Eddy, Texas, who weighs 43st (605 lbs), was told she would die unless she dropped more than half her body weight by concerned doctors.
When the producers talk to Susan’s mother and sister it becomes clear that a traumatic childhood was the root cause for her weight gain, but also that her mother Nita tried to make everything right in her daughter’s life by feeding her treats.
5386
Authorities say none of the 166 passengers on the train were injured, although a man who fell ill during the delay did receive treatment .
5387
Walter Smith says Ally McCoist deserves a chance to prove himself as a successful manager at a stable club.
‘It certainly wasn’t a good time when Alistair took over.
5388
It first undertook war service as HMAS Sleuth in World War I before it sank years later in 1981 near Hobart after hitting an object underwater, according to the Property Observer.
5389
The stadium will be wary of us, the 11 players on the pitch,' Pardew said.
Crystal Palace boss Alan Pardew thinks Sunderland fans should concentrate on his in-form side .
5390
'Babies need milk - it needs to be a formula or breast milk because it has the nutrients they need and bone broth will not give them what breast milk or formula does,' Karmel, 51, said.
5391
Former Valencia striker Aritz Aduriz denied his old team victory with a last-gasp equaliser for Athletic Bilbao at San Mames Stadium.
5392
The Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity at Clemson University in South Carolina has been put on probation for two years after the group held a Christmas theme party that flared up racial tensions on campus.
5393
Milrad, who is a lawyer and social campaigner, worked for Obama in New Hampshire during his 2008 White House bid .
The couple pictured at the White House.
5394
The 35-year-old daughter of Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, also talked about her marriage to investment banker Marc Mezvinsky in the new interview, as well as her role as a mother to her baby daughter Charlotte.
Visit site .
5395
The 27-year-old Scot, who is in Munich for this week’s BMW Open and joined in the 100-year celebrations at the Iphitos Tennis Club on Monday night, parted company with Ivan Lendl last year because the Czech was no longer able to spend half the year travelling.
5396
However, much like Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, there were eight different Chinese cities that saw multi-millionaire growth of over 400 per cent, with the southeasterly city of Fuzhou leading the pack.
5397
Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who admits to having a pint most lunchtimes, said that it was a ‘reasonable proposition’ to charge people who end up in hospital more than once after drinking .
5398
St Etienne want to sign Cardiff full-back Kevin Theophile-Catherine on a permanent deal.
St Etienne defender Kevin Theophile-Catherine shields the ball from PSG forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic .
5399
Earlier today, the aircraft plugged its in-flight refuelling (IFR) probe into the hose of an Omega Air KC-707 tanker off the coast of Maryland .
5400
‘Trying it on is when the mixture of nerves and excitement started,’ says Wood, one of the uncapped members of Alastair Cook’s squad who fly to the Caribbean on Thursday for a three-Test series against West Indies.
5401
Boxer Amir Khan could face a police probe after posting pictures on Snapchat while driving his car on a busy road in California.
5402
England captain Alastair Cook completed a much-needed century on the second morning of England's opening tour match in the West Indies.
5403
The seesaw measures  45ft in length, and according to Kyle, sends its occupiers into the air at a height of around 25ft .
It’s so much fun.
5404
How it came to pass that Matt Derbyshire might’ve put the visitors three goals up inside the first four minutes will mystify Symons.
5405
Juventus ensured their treble dreams remained alive as they overcame a first-leg defeat thanks to goals by Alessandro Matri, Roberto Pereyra and Leonardo Bonucci.
5406
The Italian papers have gone big on the race for a place in next season's Champions League .
Finally, the Italian papers are going big on the race with the Champions League.
5407
'The next game is the FA Cup semi-final so the focus is on that but you don't really choose between your mum and dad so we still have two things to play for and we will try to do that from now until the end of the season,' said the Belgium international.
5408
Greg Dyke (right) and the £16,000 Parmigiani watch that he was given as a gift at the World Cup last summer .
'Mr Greg Dyke has returned the CBF Parmigiani watch.
5409
Boeing is promising faster boarding and turnaround times at the gate with the larger overhead bins .
I won't have to gate check my bags anymore.
5410
Maurice Watkins is a sports lawyer whose firm represents QPR over their considerable FFP troubles .
It was the work of the FA’s support agency on the issue, Milltown Partners.
5411
Koeman is also looking to make Eljero Elia's loan move from Werder Bremen permanent, as he looks to strengthen his squad ahead of possible qualification for European competition next season.
5412
This is the baggage handler who fell asleep aboard the Alaska Airlines flight from Seattle to Los Angeles on Monday .
Emergency landing:
5413
If you're having trouble sleeping it could be down to the interior design of your bedroom.
Just as bright red signals danger in nature, all colours have an impact on our psychology.
5414
'The authors of Bubba Yum Yum: The Paleo Way - for new mums, babies and toddlers have decided to release a digital version of the book very shortly, and will, therefore, no longer publish the book, in any format, with Pan Macmillan Australia,' a statement from the publisher read.
5415
Mr Cameron warned that with the SNP calling ths shots, the rest of the United Kingdom – England, Wales, Northern Ireland, wouldn't get a look-in .
5416
The model contains more than 30,000 figures, and illustrates all the key moments of the battle which allowed the Duke of Wellington to defeat Napoleon's forces.
5417
Healthy holiday:
Prices at the five-star Miramare Spa Hotel start at £160 per night but can go up to £280 for some of the more expensive suites .
5418
The pair stayed at top hotels on at least eight holidays costing £30,000 between 2006 and 2010, including a trip to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, in 2009 worth £7,600.
5419
Steven Nelms penned a moving essay celebrating his wife and everything she does for their family as a stay-at-home mother to their two-year-old son Ezra .
5420
Older people are more susceptible to emotions when making decisions over their retirement, scientists have warned (file picture)
5421
Franck Ribery has dismissed reports linking Wolfsburg forward Kevin de Bruyne with Bayern Munich as a potential replacement for the former France international or his team-mate Arjen Robben.
5422
‘Rangers supporters can be reassured that Sports Direct fully accept that all of the IP rights registered in their name will be returned to the club when the loan facility of £5million is repaid.’
5423
Gravitational waves - ripples in space-time caused by such an event – are also predicted to be created by the merger (illustrated), while electromagnetic is blasted into space .
5424
Angelique Kerber of Germany upset three-time defending champion Maria Sharapova 2-6, 7-5, 6-1 in the second round of the Porsche Grand Prix on Thursday.
5425
'I look out my bedroom window and there’s this tornado and it’s looking right back in the window at me,' said Schultz.
He said because that’s Gerry, your wife, she’s dead…and she was,' said Schultz.
5426
When John West shrunk its No Drain Tuna Steak In Brine from 130g to 120g, the price stayed at £1 in Morrisons.
It's now so common, it's even got a name: 'shrinkflation'.
5427
With its stuffed rhino heads and gleaming white tusks, the trophy room at Sandringham was a relic of a bygone era – as well as rather embarrassing for animal welfare crusader Prince William.
5428
Police launched an investigation after seizing a package on April 9 with over a kilo of the date rape drug GBL addressed to  Fred Pagan, office manager and personal assistant to Sen. Thad Cochran (R-MS).
5429
Following Friday's interview, Wallace's fellow Fox News anchor, 60-year-old Greta Van Susteren, almost immediately took to her blog to chastise her colleague over his comments to Gallagher.
5430
Samsung claims the tests conducted by SquareTrade was unfair as 110lbs (50kg) of pressure 'rarely occurs under normal circumstances.'
5431
The body's pH value tells you how acidic or alkaline your body is, and many nutritionists say that having an alkaline body helps defend against sickness and disease.
5432
Dundee boss Paul Hartley has warned that Paul McGowan may not feature in any of the team's remaining six games this season because he fears playing the troubled midfielder could see him break his police curfew and end up in prison.
5433
Justus Howell, 17, was shot twice in the back by police in Zion, Illinois, on Saturday afternoon .
'I heard the officer tell the other officer, "I shot him,"' she said.
5434
A New York City skin clinic's popular new laser treatment promises to tighten skin and improve complexion - if clients are brave enough to sign a waiver releasing their personal information to a funeral director and a coroner first.
5435
Just after her mother died, Carol Bradford went to see her 95-year-old father at a care center and told him the news.
'He didn't want to die and leave her here.
5436
Lionel Messi wants Celtic back in the Champions League next season, so he can have the opportunity of playing in the 'best atmosphere in Europe' once more.
5437
Opera singer Liu Guijuan is heavily criticised for showing off her headdress (pictured) made with feather from 80 kingfishers .
Victim: Two of the 11 types of kingfisher in China are protected species .
5438
The evidence shows that primary schools which have converted to academy status are doing better than other schools — they are more likely to be ranked ‘outstanding’ by Ofsted and are more likely to improve from ‘good’ to ‘outstanding’.
5439
Though most resorts are categorised as 'low risk,' Conrad Maldives Rangali Island is listed as one to avoid .
Among them, the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island.
5440
Footage of the incident shows an angry woman appearing in her neighbour's front yard, verbally abusing the men and swinging a crowbar at him .
5441
The Beckham family pictured at the finish line after Romeo completed the three-mile mini-marathon .
Proud father David meets Romeo at the finish line with the rest of his family .
5442
Boris Johnson has 'suddenly realised' that David Cameron is not his 'competition'.
The Prime Minister said: 'His competition is people who'll have a crack at it after me'
5443
'There are very fine arteries and nerves in the hand, and they’re so easy to damage.
'There are very fine arteries and nerves in the hand, and they’re so easy to damage.
5444
Belinda, 56, from Essex, admits she wishes she'd never had a facelift because of the 'horrendous' scars it left her around her ears - the result of a botched procedure she underwent in Turkey (pictured)
5445
And former defence secretary Liam Fox said: ‘Having tried to weaponise the NHS, Miliband is trying to weaponise drowning migrants.
5446
Damon Muller has almost doubled in size due to swelling and bloating since he was diagnosed with Juvenile Dermatomyositis (JDM) in November - a rare autoimmune disease that can only be treated with high doses of steroids and a chemotherapy-type drug.
5447
Brentford (4-2-3-1): Button 6; Odubajo 6.5, Dean 6.5, Tarkowski 6, Bidwell 7; Diagouraga 6.5, Douglas; Jota 7, Pritchard 8 (Judge 60, 7), Dallas 8.5 (Smith 82); Gray 6 (Long 73, 6) Subs not used: Craig, McCormack, Bonham, Toral.
5448
The 26-year-old was sentenced to eight months imprisonment, suspended for two years, with £2,000 costs at Newcastle Crown Court (pictured)
5449
'I don't want all the boys in my yard,' she immediately chimes through a mouthful of blood-stained tissues.
'Bang, bang!' she exclaims, with a look of glee in her eyes.
5450
Nevada prison guards allegedly staged a 'gladiator-like' man-on-man fight between handcuffed inmates in the corridors of a maximum-security prison, then broke it up by opening fire with a shotgun.
5451
'I think they're getting so confident now,' he said of United, who claimed the win with goals from man of the match Ashley Young, Marouane Fellaini, Juan Mata and Chris Smalling, while Michael Carrick pulled the strings from the base of the midfield.
5452
Rodgers said that lack of a second goal for Sterling would have left his player disappointed at Anfield .
'I thought he was outstanding tonight.
5453
The five-time former champion was a 10-3 winner against Craig Steadman, a 32-year-old from Manchester who endured a painful Crucible debut.
5454
Mohammed Emwazi (left), now known as masked killer Jihadi John (right), planned to join al-Shabaab in Somalia before going to Syria because two of his friends were killed, a source has said .
5455
Tony Pulis is adamant that chairman Jeremy Peace will sell the club to someone who wants to invest heavily .
5456
Mrs Jones and her friends are seeing Take That (pictured) several times this year, including in London, Birmingham, Manchester and Milan, Italy .
5457
Hamdi Ulukaya was once a Turkish immigrant with dreams of making it big in the U.S. food industry.
Giray first sued Ulukaya in 2012 for a 53 percent stake in the company.
5458
Marc Macrae, who was election agent for the SNP’s Westminster leader Angus Robertson, said the party showed compassion for the Lockerbie bomber but ostracised him .
5459
A California woman was arrested after a video was posted on YouTube that showed her striking a young, crying child in the face with what appeared to be a iPad-like tablet.
5460
Mark Zuckerberg must release documents and electronic correspondence to a defense lawyer whose client has fled from criminal charges that he falsely claimed a majority ownership in the social media giant .
5461
Founded in Albuquerque by Grand Duke Jacob Felts, whose name inspired the nation's capital of Feltasia, Broslavia has only five citizens - but its own volunteer military.
5462
Roberto  Martinez is backing Ross Barkley to become an even more influential player for Everton and England after negotiating second-season syndrome at Goodison Park.
5463
Afterwards, around 6am, the victim went into a downstairs bathroom to change, and she 'became aware that Jason Lee was trying to force his way into the bathroom by pushing open the bathroom door,' Miss Kelly said.
5464
A medical incident doctor, usually deployed to major disaster zones, was sent to help staff at the Worcestershire Royal Hospital's under-pressure A&E department, it has emerged .
5465
Craig Stoner, 24, Darren Smalley, 35, Joshua Finbow, 23, and Simon Radford, 31, were each charged with one count of sexual assault in connection with the alleged incident at a military base in Shearwater, near Halifax, Nova Scotia.
5466
A good Samaritan was given a parking ticket after he pulled over to help an elderly woman he thought was dying.
Where it happened:
Good Samaritan:
5467
James Tomkins hopes to return to action with West Ham before the end of the season, but the defender knows his campaign may be over.
5468
Steve Esmond and his wife, Dr Theresa Devine, and their two teenage sons fell seriously ill during their stay at the Sirenusa Condominium Resort on the  island of St. John.
5469
Following continuous problems with crowd trouble, the Greek government has put together a new set of regulations in an attempt to crack down on violence at sports events.
5470
Both attacks had a tendency to come good in the Clasicos with the Henry/Eto’o/Messi strikeforce playing in one of the most famous Real Madrid-Barcelona games of all time in 2009 with Barca winning 6-2 at the Bernabeu and Henry and Messi both scored twice.
5471
Actress Michelle Collins left EastEnders in 1998 after a decade of playing Cindy Beale...only to make the leap to rival soap Coronation Street after a period of stage and screen work in 2011 .
5472
Jurors were shown a videotaped police interview with Hubers, in which the woman, then 21, said Poston was 'vain' and she gave him the 'nose job he wanted' by shooting him in the face .
5473
Granger's co-defendants Kyrron Jackson, 28, (left) and Nicholas Chandler, 29, (right), both from south east London, have both been convicted of murdering Mr Hassan and are to be sentenced in due course .
5474
Three years before he graduated and before these pictures were taken, when he was just 15 years old, Brandt’s father died from complications of juvenile diabetes.
5475
A Reuters investigation that revealed the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation had misreported millions of dollars in donations from foreign nations led the global charity to announce that it would refile more than five years of tax documents - Republicans pounced .
5476
Dontrell Stephens didn't die after he was shot by Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office Deputy Adam Lin, but the then-20-year-old was paralyzed from the waist down after the shooting.
5477
Booked.
Booked.
SUBS .
Booked for diving in stoppage time as he hooked his leg on Cahill's.
Unused subs: Valdes, Rafael, Van Persie, Pereira.
5478
But the 28-year-old son of Manchester United legend Peter returned for the 4-3 defeat at Tottenham just before the international break, and justified Nigel Pearson’s decision to keep him in the side with a brilliant display in the 2-1 win over West Ham.
5479
But UK drug company Evgen Pharma has developed a stable synthetic version of the chemical that offers the potential of a pill treatment (file picture)
5480
Michael Vaughan with Peter Moores in 2008 during his unsuccessful first spell as England coach .
‘I don’t think this is about my position, I don’t think it changes much.
5481
All of this because Jake Humphrey teasingly suggested to Harry Redknapp he was in ‘hostile territory’ as BT Sport brought us the lunchtime game from the Emirates between Arsenal and Liverpool.
5482
Now seven, Jayden, the youngest, has graduated onto calves while Lance takes on bullocks and Joe wrangles bulls.
'I cried in the back pen.'
5483
The women also point out that men continue to hold the top roles in big industries and get paid 30 per cent more than women despite the fact that women make up almost 60 per cent of college graduates.
5484
As of Wednesday 22nd April, department store Myer will be holding a unprecedented designer sale sure to melt the plastic cards of fashionistas in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth, in a bid to keep up with international retailers.
5485
Jamie Robbins (above) handed himself into the police a year after he stole £1,600 from a convenience store in Birmingham with an accomplice because he preferred life in jail .
5486
The animals’ owner, Sonia Sharrock, praised her ‘absolutely amazing’ brother-in-law, for his incredible feat, saying ‘I don’t know what I would have done without him and my sister’. ‘Steve was cutting the wire, he had to dive right down into the deep water to cut it.
5487
The mass brawl which broke out at a bar opening inside a Queens casino Friday night was allegedly caused by an argument in an enormous line for drinks.
5488
Sentencing him at Birmingham Crown Court, the judge said Donohoe abused the woman's trust in 'every conceivable way'.
You did so in every conceivable way.
5489
Lead researcher Eleanor Warren-Thomas said: ‘The tyre industry consumes 70 per cent of all natural rubber grown, and rising demand for vehicle and aeroplane tyres is behind the recent expansion of plantations.
5490
Booked: None .
Leonardo Ulloa  draws a foul from Carl Jenkinson  during the Barclays Premier league match Leicester City and West Ham United .
5491
On Monday, Kim, Kanye and Khloe arrived in Jerusalem's Old City to visit Armenian church St James Cathedral in order to baptise the nearly-two-year-old girl.
5492
Chelsea have a strong Brazilian contingency with the likes of Willian, Ramires, Filipe Luis and Oscar while 21-year-old Lucas Piazon is on loan at Eintracht Frankfurt.
5493
Andrea Pirlo scored a stunning free-kick for Juventus, but couldn't stop his side from sinking to a 2-1 defeat at local rivals Torino.
5494
Bobby Brown spoke for the first time about daughter Bobbi Kristina in Los Angeles on Saturday night and admitted: 'I dunno what the hell ​I am going through right now, but I am giving it to God and letting him deal with ​it'
5495
Shady Yassin, Fohounhedo's attorney, said the woman made the pass at his client when he first picked her up and then they 'went back to his place'.
5496
Malsbury (above) was charged with attempting to inflict grievous bodily harm with intent to cause serious injury - but was cleared of this after her plea of guilty to an alternative offence of affray was accepted .
5497
A passenger filmed the driver on a bus in Auckland, New Zealand, and sent the video to bus company Ritchies Coachlines along with a complaint.
5498
Chris Ramsey has pledged his long-term future to QPR – insisting he will remain at the club for as long as they want him.
5499
Taronga's elephants are served a medley of different food items, particularly relishing fibrous palm logs and tough pineapple plant tops.
5500
Mr Gregory was performing loop-the-loops throughout his 80s – earning the nickname The Flying Zimmer – as a founder member of the Great War Display Team, a band of pilots determined to preserve the spirit and skills of Britain’s First World War dogfighter heroes.
5501
Muslim women's rights advocate and outspoken critic of Islam Ayaan Hirsi Ali has championed the U.S. as the best country in the world to live as a woman and as a black person .
5502
It comes after Ms Bines admitted in a video statement that 10 recipes contained within her Clean Eating Diet Plan had been stolen .
5503
Tori's doctor's determined she had a severe burn and suggested they remove the damaged skin and graft skin from another area of the body, a source tells Daily Mail Online.
5504
Kinessa Johnson from Yelm, Washington State, works for the Veterans Empowered to Protect African Wildlife (VEPAW), training park rangers to catch and detain the wildlife killers.
5505
Bayern Munich winger Arjen Robben has said he has 'felt disabled' during his latest spell on the sidelines with a troublesome abdominal injury.
5506
Police were called to disperse over 200 teenagers just before 10pm after members of the community centre unsuccessfully tried to break up the fight.
5507
The heist took place in the Landy Tunnel (pictured), which is just under a mile long and notorious for smash-and-grabs .
5508
The position stands in contrast to the views of at least three of his GOP competitors, who last week said that while they believe in states' rights to self-determination, they'd lay the hammer down on Colorado and Washington for flouting federal law.
5509
Mayweather recently revealed that he was within three pounds of the welterweight limit already, while Pacquiao unveiled his multi-coloured mouthguard for the fight.
5510
If all goes to plan, the Duchess of Cambridge hopes to have her baby at the exclusive Lindo Wing of the hospital, where her first child, Prince George, was born in 2013.
5511
McCarthy will be sentenced on May 1, after being found guilty of murder at Norwich Crown Court .
But a jury today found him guilty of murder following a eight-day trial.
5512
UEFA's increase in Champions League money gives Celtic manager Ronny Deila extra reasons to qualify .
We play good football, we train well, there is good harmony in the squad.
5513
Cara Lee-Fanus was rushed to St Peter's Hospital (pictured) in Chertsey, Surrey, but died from a head injury the next day despite the best effort of medical teams .
5514
On her parents' hobby farm Ms Hussein spends her days playing with, feeding, and caring for what she estimates to be at least 150 different animals.
5515
'It felt different to all the other items.
Mr Hunter said the mother of two was a ‘mature woman’ and knew exactly what she had felt in her hand.
5516
'I’m Up is a mobile app alarm clock that is linked to a QR code that may be anywhere in your home, not in arms reach form bed, and the alarm does not go off until your scan the code, hence getting out of bed.'
5517
Miss Swinfield's mother, Kay, said she is 'devastated' over her daughter's death, saying she suffered two heart attacks before dying of multiple organ failure after taking the drug .
5518
It started out as a sweet family moment on a day trip to the zoo: a little girl beating her chest at a gorilla, safely separated by a pane of glass.
5519
It is hoped the new approach will target cancer stem cells that evade conventional drugs and cause the tumour to re-grow.
5520
In a lawsuit, Ms Shupe accuses the school of failing to adequately protect her child despite witnessing the attacks and being notified that Kaiden had been diagnosed with depression.
5521
The heavy telescope, pictured here during testing, is scheduled to launch atop an Ariane 5 rocket, made by the European Space Agency, from French Guiana in October 2018 .
5522
It said her comments included 'would you hire me…I'm in the Taliban', or words to that effect, referring to the man as 'Mohammed', or words to that effect, and referring to 'bombs and blowing up the school', or words to that effect, in an Asian accent.
5523
Gloriavale, a New Zealand settlement of around 500 where everyone follows a strict New Testament creed and wears blue uniforms, has come under increasing scrutiny in recent weeks following abuse allegations .
5524
Jack Wilshere says he is ready to return to the Arsenal first team and play a part in their season-defining games after completing 90 minutes for the Under 21 side on Tuesday night.
5525
This was the heartbreaking sight a Porsche owner had to endure after crashing his pride and joy into a builder's lorry.
It was obviously his pride and joy.
5526
Speaking after the 0-0 draw with Premier League leaders Chelsea on Sunday, Henry told Sky Sports: 'They need a goalkeeper, they still need a centre back, they still need a holding midfielder and, I'm afraid, they need a top, top quality striker to win this league again.'
5527
A Republican lawmaker in North Dakota with a long record of opposition to pro-gay rights laws was revealed this week to be an active user of gay hook-up app Grindr and claims he was outed as part of a smear campaign by a rival.
5528
Unsurprisingly the world's least happy countries are places ravaged by war and extreme poverty - with Syria (pictured) Burundi and Togo taking their place at the bottom of the 158-nation strong list .
5529
'Shell was just such a gorgeous girl,' said Jan (left) of her eldest daughter, with her other daughter Lisa (right) Jan getting her third tattoo, a shell, by tattoo artist Shaun 'Bones' from Bondi Ink .
5530
Feline family ties proved essential at a zoo in Japan recently after a newly born white tiger cub fell in to a pool of water, and had to get his brothers to come to the rescue.
5531
De Bruyne has become one of the hottest prospects in European football after starring in the Bundesliga - being linked with Manchester City and Bayern Munich.
5532
Caykur Rizespor midfielder Ludovic Obraniak was taken to hospital with a suspected heart problem after being substituted during his side's match against Fenerbahce on Saturday.
5533
Eighteen-year-old Madison Small, pictured, passed away suddenly on Tuesday morning after feeling ill on Monday and it has now emerged she died of meningococcal meningitis .
5534
Business mogul Jack Welch has called for an end to the college hierarchy that has caused higher education to become cripplingly expensive.
5535
Harris' son Aidan Fraley (pictured right with his uncle Andre Harris a week after his father's death), has said the police officers who allowed Bates to become a cop should be held accountable for his death .
5536
The reality TV star said Mr Miliband 'definitely' topped her list of political leaders in a game of 'snog, marry or avoid'
5537
Eloise Parry, known as Ella,  died after swallowing the highly-toxic substance known as DNP .
'I didn't know it at the time, but Ella had bought slimming tablets on the internet.
5538
It looks like an ordinary forest, with moss climbing up the walls and brown leaves covering the floor - but, if you look closely, it is not as it seems .
5539
His mother previously said: 'He left a suicide note saying he was taking his own life as it was easier than what he was going through.'
5540
This had occurred following City's 1-0 defeat at Sunderland on November 10, 2013 while a Robin van Persie header gave the Red Devils victory over Arsenal by the same scoreline going into the international break.
5541
While many designers, some modelling agencies, and even Vogue magazine have pledged in recent years not to work with models under the age of 16, plus-size model Ashley Graham, 27, says she's been working since well before that cut-off age - and in her underwear, no less.
Visit site .
Her lingerie line for Addition Elle includes bras in sizes from DD to H and underwear in sizes XL to 3X.
5542
'No, that won't be happening (riding).
Arsenal fan and jockey McCoy will be handed his 20th Champion Jockey trophy by ex-Gunner Ian Wright .
5543
Garrod claimed he was rushing to work after a colleague had contacted him before he set off and told him that a cyclist was injured on the A470 at Dolgellau but was caught out when bosses checked 999 records .
5544
we know this already so please try your best not to tell him that regardless of how much you might feel the need.'
'That is not how I feel.
5545
Dikembe Mutombo, an eight-times NBA All-Star who was famous for swatting away opponents' shots and wagging his finger at them, was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on Monday.
5546
Pep Guardiola, whose side were outplayed in Portugal on Wednesday, remains Manchester City's first choice to replace under-fire Manuel Pellegrini.
5547
He loved cricket, and he loved conveying his love, by visual means or verbal.
He loved not just cricket, but cricketers too.
Good night, everyone.
5548
We stayed in a Vista three-bedroom mobile home.
Camping La Chapelle's biggest selling point is a fantastic swimming pool complex, including two water slides .
5549
Rule change:
Mr Mead says he fears for the top end of the market but 'if you cut strings that's holding the market up, everything else falls down'
5550
The news comes a week after Indiana passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which critics say will allow businesses to openly discriminate against gays, and just two days after his daughter told a local news station they would refuse to serve a gay marriage ceremony.
5551
Gareth Bale could miss out on Real Madrid's game with Rayo Vallecano after injuring his left foot during a training session on Tuesday morning.
5552
Flat whites are best accompanied by a blueberry muffin, and a plain black coffee is best drunk with a glazed ring doughnut.
FLAT WHITE: Muffins .
5553
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon has left her boxy jackets (in 2012, left) and severe suits in the past - and she proved her new style credentials with a stunning appearance yesterday morning (right)
5554
Colin Mcinerney, 28, claims he was beaten and had his head stomped on by a man, two teenagers and a boy aged only about 10 on Friday night at the fast food restaurant in Coolalinga near Darwin.
5555
Brendan Rodgers has insisted that Raheem Sterling will not be sold this summer, even if he fails to agree a new long-term contract at Anfield.
5556
The Apple Watch is officially going on sale today - but none of its stores will have them in stock .
It's an intriguing device that has enough wow factor to pull people in.'
5557
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg today promised to 'spread the burden' of deficit reduction, with cuts to welfare and Whitehall budgets along with tax rises aimed at the very wealthy .
5558
The Tottenham sensation, who has broken through into the first team, and into Roy Hodgson's England side during a remarkable season, is nominated for both the PFA Player and Young Player of the Season.
5559
The California firm said it will announce a 'home battery' and a 'very large utility scale battery' in a letter sent to investors.
5560
Speaking at Milan's Salone de Mobile - an annual showcase of the world's leading furniture and light designers - he continued: 'Generally we are a car company that talks to car guys but we want to reach a wider audience.
5561
New York state senator Jeffrey Klein has apologized to Republican political strategist Susan Del Percio (pictured) after a tweet showed a search for 'hot' pictures of her .
5562
In December 2012 she was hosting on 2 Day FM with fellow DJ Michael Christian when they posed as the Queen and Prince Charles, and rang the London hospital where the real life Duchess of Cambridge was suffering severe morning sickness with her first child.
5563
While most photographers who visit the site focus on the looming Ferris wheel, Seidel quickly realised that there was far more to see.
5564
Plans: The first floor will belong to David and Victoria, and boast a huge bedroom, an even bigger dressing room and an en-suite bathroom.
5565
Burnley boss Sean Dyche has told striker Danny Ings to keep on smiling - and the goals will return.
Ashley Barnes (right) says he's forgotten about the Nemanja Matic incident and moved on .
5566
Sportsmail's boxing correspondent Jeff Powell looks ahead to Saturday's mega-fight at the MGM Grand after witnessing Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao's grand arrivals in Las Vegas.
5567
Firefighter Miguel Meza (left) who dove into the water in San Pedro after a car carrying a family of four plunged into the water has been hailed a hero on the Facebook of City Councilman Joe Buscaino (right)
5568
Manny Pacquiao literally got two words in before a conference call about his fight with Floyd Mayweather Jnr was abruptly cancelled on Monday.
5569
Steve Esmond and his wife, Dr Theresa Devine, and their two teenage sons fell seriously ill during their stay at the Sirenusa Condominium Resort on the island of St. John .
5570
Barbara Beam died in her South Carolina home in January after sitting for six months and prosecutors are considering charges against her caretakers.
5571
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said last week that Hughes 'literally flew under the radar' to the Capitol lawn, but added that it's too soon to say whether security changes are needed .
5572
The 28-year-old Wyong Roos rugby league club player was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died at Gosford Hospital.
5573
Police announced today that they had arrested a 36-year-old man on suspicion of conspiracy to murder Abdul Hadi Arwani, who was killed in Wembley two weeks ago.
5574
Children and pets are not allowed during overnight stays, and it costs $295 a night for two guests, with a minimum of two nights.
5575
But if Kane isn’t a good enough incentive for the Premier League clubs to work harder to promote players, perhaps their recent travails in the Champions League and Europa League might convince them.
5576
Ten top doctors sent a letter to Columbia University urging the school to remove TV celebrity doctor Mehmet Oz from his faculty position because he is a 'charlatan' who promotes 'quack treatments'.
5577
Blindfolded and wearing ear-plugs, test subjects performed movements with their hand attached to a robotic device.
5578
Two dozen wooden caskets of the victims of the worst-ever migrant disaster in the Mediterranean were buried in Malta .
5579
The Sony Xperia Z3 Compact kept playing a movie on a loop for more than 20 hours on one charge before it went dead — while the Nokia Lumia 620 managed just six hours and the iPhone 6 lasted just under 13 hours.
5580
In a new BBC documentary, former Apprentice star Margaret Mountford will reveal that the island was the Magaluf of its day, and a capital for sex tourism.
5581
The 19-year-old midfielder, who inspired Tim Sherwood's team to their FA Cup semi-final triumph over Liverpool on Sunday, has been photographed inhaling from a white balloon believed to be filled with nitrous oxide — more commonly known as laughing gas.
5582
Authorities in Muskogee, Oklahoma announced on Wednesday that they were searching for other potential victims of William 'Frankie' Dugan, 29, and 32-year-old Valerie Ojo.
5583
As a backup, users need to . additionally set up a screen lock pattern or PIN, in case the camera . breaks or fails to recognise their face.
5584
ISIS militants (pictured) entered the Yarmouk camp as Jordan closed its only functioning border crossing with the country following heavy clashes on the Syrian side between rebels and government forces .
5585
Prior to the current bout of fighting, some 400,000 Iraqis were already displaced, including 60,000 in Ramadi district, according to the International Organization for Migration.
5586
With a particular focus on challenging negative body image, Fashion Targets Breast Cancer teamed up with Bridge Models, an agency which specialises in recruiting women of all shapes and sizes.
5587
Andy Farrell says rugby union is going to be the sport of the year with the World Cup coming up in England .
‘Obviously, Twickenham's our home.
5588
Former national security chief Zhou Yongkang is embroiled in the biggest corruption case since Mao Zedong's widow (pictured right) went on trial with the rest of the 'Gang of Four'
5589
There is variety, pace, and creativity in the final third and Villa have already surpassed under Sherwood the total goals managed with Lambert at the helm this season: 16 goals in 10 games, compared to 15 in 28.
5590
Costa limped off just 11 minutes into his return from injury in Chelsea's 2-1 win over Stoke City on Saturday .
5591
The 25-year-old cousin of Princes William and Harry embraced the sports luxe trend as she navigated the concrete jungle with a friend.
Visit site .
5592
I’m sure most neutrals wanted to see Arsenal play Liverpool in the FA Cup final, and plenty of Arsenal fans will be happy to see Villa there instead.
5593
Van Haften was sentenced to three years' probation on the battery conviction in 1998, but his probation was revoked in 1999 and he was sentenced to a year in jail.
5594
Olive Fowler was caught by police at JFK airport on April 12 after taking a Caribbean Airlines flight from her hometown in Guyana, South America, to New York.
5595
Before we speak about the final, we have got to get through the semi-final and that is only possible after getting through here.
Newcastle is next.
5596
The app is an extension of Sainsbury's current Scan-and-Go scheme (pictured), which lets customers scan items on their phone as they journey around the store.
5597
Sir Frank (pictured), who is now 88, said he was confused as to why he was being named because he was not even serving in Northern Ireland at the time of the murder in 1973 .
5598
It carries about 350,000 passengers during the 260 days of the year it is open and employs about 100 full-time, paid staff and hundreds of volunteers.
5599
As well as admitting that he doesn't know any of One Direction's hit songs, Baines also reveals that Mark Ronson and Bruno Mars' Uptown Funk is regularly played in the Toffees' dressing room.
5600
Barcelona star Neymar feels his team's Champions League tie with PSG will prove a real 'spectacle' Neymar pictured during training with Barcelona on Saturday as they prepare for Celta Vigo on Sunday .
5601
Jordan Sharifi, 17, was taken into custody on Friday by police in McKinney, Texas, who say he confessed to giving a gun and  ammunition to 14-year-old Raymond Howell, Jr. On Thursday
5602
The 20-year-old had suffered stretchmarks after having twins and wanted a confidence boost, but after posting images (pictured right), her account was immediately shut down .
Hannah suffered from stretch marks after giving birth to twin girls Lily and Grace with fiance David Johnstone, 22 (pictured right), in June last year .
5603
A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes in the shadow of Earth.
The final blood moon of the Tetrad will occur on September 28 and there will be nine sets of them in the 21st century.
5604
'I wish I had.
But he had been out walking with his beloved wife Daphne for 40 minutes every morning, in the hope that he could return to work.
'I wish I had.'
5605
Seven-year-old Lacey McCarty, six-year-old Phillip McCarty and five-month-old Christopher Swist died allegedly at the hands of their mother, Jessica McCarty, in a botched murder-suicide.
5606
Informing jurors that another footballer, former Whitehawk FC defender Michael Boateng, was also found guilty at a previous trial, Mr Mather said there was no doubt that an agreement to fix lower league matches occurred.
5607
'Asked her to model today's outfit...
'Asked her to model today's outfit...
Apparently that makes me an #a**holeparent,' the social media user wrote.
5608
Consumer research firm Kantar Worldpanel said Aldi sales grew by 17 per cent from January and the end of March compared to the same time a year earlier, compared to 3 per cent growth for Waitrose .
5609
Inter Milan have opened discussions with Manchester City about Stevan Jovetic.
Inter Milan have opened talks with Manchester City regarding a deal for forward Stevan Jovetic .
5610
COST:  £4million compensation fee .
James Milner appears set to depart Manchester City at the end of the season when his contract expires .
5611
We will have to see if they are available.’
Liverpool's Simon Mignolet punches a cross away under pressure from West Brom defender Joleon Lescott .
5612
David Cochenic (left) received Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, and Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal.
He joined the Navy in 1968 .
5613
'Everybody knows that her life has not necessarily been about the everyday American,' Dartmouth student Julia Lau said of Clinton .
5614
With the expertise of top Harley Street dermatologist Dr Nick Lowe, Lauren Libbert puts some of these latest new-generation wipes to the test . . . SKIN-BRIGHTENER .
5615
The 28-year-old Londoner joked to host Seth Myers that Belfast is ‘wonderful for two or three days’ and emphasized that he has spent five years filming in the city, drawing laughter from a studio audience.
5616
panish groups representing gypsies have launched a campaign to remove a reference to them as swindlers from the world's benchmark Spanish dictionary .
5617
Taking the lowest spots were Afghanistan (ranked at 94 and able to visit 28 countries visa-free), Iraq, (able to visit 31 countries), Pakistan and Somalia (able to visit 32 countries) and the Palestinian Territory (able to visit 35).
5618
He will be sentenced for the misdemeanor on May 22.
Initially, Maahs thought the coffee smelled bad because the milk in the office (pictured) was spoiled .
5619
We try to keep her busy so she doesn’t do it, but if we try to stop her she will find a way to do it.
Kelly Knight says doctors are unable to treat Jessica until she is six years old .
5620
Ancient Egyptians would did not have modern hangover cures and used strings of leaves instead, according to new translations of 1,900 year old texts found at Oxyrhynchus in Egypt.
5621
Sister Soniya Awal, 10, father Shyam Awal, 34, mother Rasmila Awal, 35, with baby Sonit Awal in front of their flattened house.
Everyone tried to help.
5622
Durst's lawyers say the arrest in New Orleans was timed to coincide with the final episode of 'The Jinx,' which also described the disappearance of his wife, Kathleen, in 1982 from New York; the Los Angeles shooting of Berman, 55, in 2000; and Black's death in 2001.
5623
Mr Asbo, the swan believed to be his grandfather, was moved to a location 60 miles away in 2012 by river authorities after repeatedly attacking rowers.
5624
RANGERS: April 5 Hearts (h); April 9 Queen of the South (a); April 12 Raith (h); April 15 Livingston (a); April 18 Dumbarton (a); April 25 Falkirk (h); May 2 Hearts (a)
5625
The Villa youngster wanted a chocolate bar as a win bonus and would have agreed terms for a signed claret and blue football, a WWE wrestling figure and some sweets - and Sherwood had some fun on Friday as he revealed his 'win bonus' to the assembled media.
5626
Toshiba's humanoid robot known as Aiko Chihira, is set to start work at the information desk of a department store in Tokyo.
5627
PLAYERS HE LIKES:
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
REASON IT MIGHT NOT:
5628
The robots are controlled by a wristband containing Intel's Curie computer the size of a button.
Intel's 3D-printed experimental dress crowned at the collar with robotic spider legs.
5629
Her mother, Debbie, says: ‘When I told Sophie [the cancer] was back again, she was totally devastated and just said, ‘‘I don’t want to die, mummy, I don’t want to die.’’ ’
5630
Witnesses reported seeing the front wheel of her bike 'completely squashed' under the lorry following the accident close to Lambeth Bridge near the Houses of Parliament at about 9.30am.
5631
Dozens of staff at Manchester United's Megastore, including mascot Fred the Red, are sweating over their futures with the club's world-record £750m kit deal about to kick in.
5632
Students from Zeta Beta Tau at both the University of Florida and Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia, have been accused of the deplorable behavior against the ex-servicemen during the Warrior Beach Retreat in Panama City on April 17.
5633
The 'big bogan' statue could prove as popular as the Big Banana which is a tourist attraction in Coffs Harbour, the The Big Merino in Goulburn, the Big Prawn in Ballina and Sunshine Coast's Big Pineapple.
5634
Troublesome is a regular visitor to Etali in the Madikwe Game Reserve and has become a regular visitor to the splash pools there over the past four years, much to guests' amusement.
5635
The new 2.0 TFSI S line Quattro (pictured) is fun to drive with lively acceleration that takes it from rest to 62 mph in just 6.1 .
GOOD .
5636
President Barack Obama took a break from being the real president on April Fools' Day to impersonate a fictional one, House of Cards' conniving Frank Underwood.
5637
City code enforcement officials in Ogden, Utah, have told resident Jeremy Trentelman to take down the elaborate box fort he built for his son and daughter in his front yard .
5638
Angel Rangel (Swansea City) Classy right back has risen from League One to the Premier League with Swansea, impressing in his four seasons in the Football League after moving from Spain.
5639
Hoffenheim's Andreas Beck (left) challenges Borussia Dortmund midfielder Henrikh Mkhitaryan (right) Erik Durm (left) and Hoffenehim forward Kevin Volland (right) both jump for the ball on Tuesday night .
5640
Yaya Toure remains Inter Milan's main transfer target for the summer despite the obvious financial difficulties of signing a 31-year-old player on £200,000 a week.
5641
Saracens No 8 Billy Vunipola, Toulon flanker Steffon Armitage and Clermont full back Nick Abendanon have all been shortlisted for the European Player of the Year award following their superb performances in this season's European Champions Cup.
5642
Genetics and non-shared-environment factors were found to have the largest effect on the children’s motivation to learn, whereas the shared environment had negligible impact (stock image shown)
5643
Our best images of Pluto so far come from the Hubble Space Telescope (shown is one of the images), so the arrival of New Horizons is hugely exciting for scientists, who have waited many years to catch a glimpse of this distant world and unravel some of its secrets .
5644
For some of the grander shots, a team of four equipped with powerful LED lights and walkie-talkies helped to light-paint this enormous cavern for this long exposure shot.
5645
At the height of her addiction, Ms Merner, who still has to visit hospital once a week, was drinking a bottle of vodka every day.
5646
Maroubra Surf Life Saving is providing counselling for the two boys who discovered the body as well as other surf club members .
'It's just awful.
5647
Marathon rider Ruslan Bazarov, 28, suffered pelvic injuries and a broken leg when the truck overtook him on the St Petersburg ring road.
5648
Out-of-date sun lotions may separate and not spread evenly, say experts, meaning you may not be completely covered with vital UV filters, even if the active ingredients in the sun cream remain stable .
5649
The Grand National peak viewing figure of 8.8million proved that this is one event on the racing calendar that Channel 4 invariably get right, even without Clare Balding.
5650
Theia's injuries include a dislocated jaw and multiple bone fractures around her nasal cavity, which makes it difficult for her to eat and breathe but it looks as though she is truly on the mend .
5651
Sergio Aguero will be one of 14 native Spanish-speaking players to feature in the Manchester derby on Sunday .
5652
Mimi and Joe Lemay's five-year-old son Jacob was born a girl named Mia, but the couple has now accepted that their child is a boy .
Happy kid:
5653
Scientists have found a system of priming the body’s immune system to recognise, attack and kill off cancerous cells in lung, skin and bowel tumours.
5654
Other stressful everyday emergencies included losing your keys (left) and being stuck in traffic when already late (right)
5655
He was one of few players Sir Alex Ferguson had to try more than once to convince to move to the club, after he spurned the Scotsman's advances to sign for Parma and Carlo Ancelotti after a frustrating year on AC Milan's bench.
5656
The victim received a deep laceration to his shin and puncture wounds to his calf.
Mr Palmer took to his Twitter account to send his well wishes to the man following the incident .
5657
Sheriff Mbye, also 18, died in hospital after receiving multiple stab wounds in a scuffle outside the restaurant in Northfield, Birmingham on Friday afternoon.
5658
39-year-old Julie Sweet has lived alone in Clovelly for five years and has never been happier .
39-year-old Julie Sweet feels that she is often stigmatised by friends and family.
5659
1950s .
This two bedroom rental, just steps from the trendy Old Street area, sleeps five comfortably and starts at £180 per night.
5660
Whilst drinking the water, the students would have been at a greater risk of contracting gastroenteritis or diarrhoea due to the possible presence of a parasite, Cryptosporidium.
5661
Nurses working 12-hour shifts amid staffing shortages in the NHS are treated like 'slave labour', one Unison member has warned, as she called for more research into how longer working hours affect staff health .
5662
General mess, dated carpets and kitchens, unfinished DIY projects and the small size of their property rank highest on the list of embarrassments - which awful color schemes, shabby furniture and poor location also proved to be particularly shameful for homeowners.
10.
5663
Carlo Ancelotti has revealed Karim Benzema will miss Real Madrid's La Liga game at home to Malaga on Saturday after the Frenchman limped out of training with a knee problem.
5664
'Statistically, it's pretty unlikely that an 11-year hiatus in warming, like the one we saw at the start of this century, would occur if the underlying human-caused warming was progressing at a rate as fast as the most severe IPCC projections,' Brown said.
5665
Jim Murphy (left), Labour's Scottish leader, and Douglas Alexander (right), the party's chief election strategist could lose their seats .
5666
Queens Park Rangers manager Chris Ramsey claims that covert racism still exists in football boardrooms and that the implementing of a Rooney Rule could help raise awareness of the issue.
5667
Errani, the world No 15, will now take on Kazakhstan's Zarina Diyas after the 21-year-old rising star dismissed world No 19 Sabine Lisicki 6-0 6-0.
5668
But now I made a fine breakfast.
Italian media claimed Ms Moric, pictured, was found in her apartment by her mother on Saturday night .
5669
This forerunner of the television was manufactured in 1928 – two years after Logie Baird first demonstrated a working TV system – and has the serial number 258.
5670
Manuel Garza Jr. received a lethal injection of pentobarbital for killing San Antonio Police Officer John 'Rocky' Riojas in February 2001.
5671
On Tuesday night, just hours after news of their her death, hundreds of friends, classmates and family gathered for a candle-lit vigil at the school.
5672
Ms Rinehart was also asked if she printed confidential emails and stored them in her office when she was a director of Hancock Prospecting, while under cross-examination from her mother's lawyers.
5673
And every time Miss Mulligan begins a new play, such as Starlight which she starred in last year, her mother sends her a good luck opening night card, signed ‘from Nans’.
5674
Chelsea do consider their sponsorship interests when the club buys a new player but the Blues would never sign someone who isn't good enough, insists manager Jose Mourinho.
5675
The Duchess of Cambridge has revealed that Prince George went looking for his father in the cupboards after being told he was 'in China'.
5676
LaTasha Gosling, 27, of Tisdale, Saskatchewan, and her two daughters, Janyaa, 4, and Jenika, 8, and her son Landen, 7, were discovered early Wednesday one day after they were reported missing.
5677
It was also claimed this weekend that Ms Sturgeon has privately vowed to keep voting down an Ed Miliband Budget until he agrees to her party’s policy demands .
5678
Fast bowler Jimmy Anderson made cricket history in the Caribbean on Friday by beating the great Sir Ian Botham's all-time England wicket-taking record with his 384th victim in his hundredth Test.
5679
As the 20th anniversary of her sister's body being found approaches, Kate Rimer speaks about the struggle the family have faced as Lindsay Jo's killer has not been found for two decades .
5680
Zion Police chief Steve Dumyahn said the department had 'no desire to defame' Howell, but released the details because media outlets realized his case and Peet's are connected .
5681
Health experts have compared ancient nights out to modern drinking spots such as Magaluf .
Warning: Gin Lane, by William Hogarth, graphically depicted the dark side of booze culture .
5682
The latest introduction of free food will be part of a package that will also include free checked baggage on all domestic flights, which will complement the free in-flight entertainment on offer already.
5683
Karen (right) turned out to be a fellow Ireland native who lived just an hour down the road from Niamh (left), making it easy for the pair to meet in real life and take some eerily twin-like photos together .
5684
Mario Gotze celebrates scoring for Borussia Dortmund with Robert Lewandowski in their 1-0 win at Bayern Munich in November 2011 - both have since joined Bayern as Dortmund have slipped down the table .
5685
Polished evergreen foliage provides a great contrast with brightly coloured flowers and brings life to dull winter gardens.
This is also a good time to buy camellia plants.
5686
Incredibly, that has left Day alongside Casey in tied sixth place, just three shots off the lead held, almost inevitably, by the remarkably consistent young American, Jordan Spieth.
5687
Liverpool midfielder Jordan Henderson is set to sign a new long-term contract at Anfield .
Henderson's new deal is worth around £100,000-a-week and will run until the summer of 2020 .
5688
easyJet is one of many airlines set to cancel flights over a strike by French air traffic controllers over the next three days (file photo)
5689
Gates's Fire Chief, James Harrington, said an ember from Flowers's cigarette likely fell on to his shirt while he was driving along Chili Avenue (pictured) shortly before 9am on March 9, causing him to burn alive .
5690
Cleveland fire spokesman Larry Gray told local media the falling bricks might have been a 'freak accident' and said that the building was not under construction .
5691
They analysed daily temperatures and daily rainfall totals from climate models and looked for events that would be expected to occur once in 1,000 days in an unperturbed climate - referred to as moderate daily extremes.
5692
As Jimmy Anderson prepares to play his 100th Test - needing only three wickets to equal Ian Botham’s England-record haul of 383 - Sportsmail's Lawrence Booth spoke to those who knew him and played with him in his early days for Burnley, Lancashire and England.
5693
The rise of the DIY kits come as British Dental Health Foundation revealed last year that one in five people admitted they would carry out DIY dentistry, including pulling out their own teeth, because they can't afford to go to the dentist.
5694
And for €18 million (about £13 million or $20 million) it can all be yours.
The home is currently listed for €30 million, just less than $39 million or about £24 million.
5695
Programmes based on the Atkins diet - high in fat, low in carbohydrates - also helped people lose more weight at six months and 12 months than counseling alone and the approach 'appears promising'.
5696
Trade unions gave Labour £737,948 out of the £1.1million the party raised this week – the second week of the election campaign.
5697
Melissa Klein (behind counter) of Sweet Cakes by Melissa faces a $135,000 fine after being found guilty of discriminating against a lesbian couple when she and her husband refused to make them a wedding cake .
5698
After what begins as a routine skydive - with two of the jumpers linking hands in mid-air as two companions circle them - the camera slips from helmet and makes its stomach-churning plunge to the ground.
5699
Police alleged Ms Hannibal, of Cammeray, supplied a number of 'purple speaker' pills between 2pm and 3:30pm on November 7, the day before the Harbourlife dance festival near Mrs Macquarie's Chair where Ms Bartter collapsed.
5700
‘That would be a good option because I’m really enjoying my football here,’ replied Vuckic.
I feel from Newcastle to Rangers on loan I took that step back but now I want to go forward.
5701
Nurhayada is seen in the video playing with the  handrail at the top of the escalator with her five-year-old sister at the Kenanga Wholesale City mall in Pudu, Malaysia.
5702
Google's Map Maker lets any user add and update map information for millions of people to see in Google Maps and Google Earth.
5703
Her Majesty The Queen looked elegant in a long blue jacket which she wore over a cream and blue floral dress was joined by the Duke of Edinburgh at a reception at Canada House in Trafalgar Square, London today .
5704
A Shetland pony has been battered to death with a breeze block in the middle of the night in a brutal attack, devastating the toddler who played with her every day.
5705
Professor Ninian Peckitt, 63, has been struck off after a hearing heard that he punched a patient in the face ten times to fix a broken cheekbone .
5706
A former SS sergeant (pictured) described in chilling detail Wednesday how cattle cars full of Jews were brought to the Auschwitz death camp, the people stripped of their belongings and then most led directly into gas chambers .
5707
The Legend of the Seas docked on Tuesday with 135 sick passengers aboard - the second Royal Caribbean ship infected in two days .
5708
The return of Game of Thrones, starring Nathalie Emmanuel as Missandei, above, has sparked a surge in internet piracy with fans making more than 100,000 illegal downloads per day .
5709
It was thought that Edward Snowden was living in a secret location in Russia after his 2013 leaks made him a wanted man by the US Government – but it seems he’s actually set up shop in the middle of the White House.
5710
O2's owner Telefónica UK  will give Sky wholesale access to 2G, 3G and 4G voice and data services, with the first deals expecting to launch in 2016.
5711
Schumacher Junior is part of the Dutch Van Amersfoort Racing team in the 2015 ADAC Formula 4 series after impressing during his karting career, finishing second in the world, European and German kart championships last season.
5712
LeGarrette Blount will miss the first game of the new season after being charged with marijuana possession .
Bell was also charged with a DUI.
5713
Belgian teenager Obbi Oulare scored as Club Brugge came from behind to beat Anderlecht in front of scouts from a number of Europe’s top clubs.
5714
They nonetheless left open from the outset the possibility of Moeen joining up later in the month-long trip, for which James Tredwell and the uncapped Adil Rashid are instead the initial frontline spin options.
5715
This is the huge weapons arsenal allegedly found inside a secret basement bunker in the home of Steven and Sarah Nick.
5716
Looking for answers: The New edition frontman (front right) took time out with one of the medical staff, who spent some time talking to him outside of the hospital .
5717
Fay Purdham and Christopher Dodd are to marry after reuniting years after Miss Purdham underwent surgery to become a woman.
Miss Purdham with her sister.
5718
The Price is Right model who gave away a $21,960 car for free because of dumb mistake has said it's the 'biggest mistake ever in game show history' and the first of her six-year career.
5719
Christopher Nathan May, 50, left, is accused of killing Tracey Woodford, 47, right, who was missing for three days before being discovered at a flat in Pontypridd, south Wales on Friday .
5720
Phil Blackwood (left) was sentenced to two-and-a-half years with hard labour by a Burmese court last month after posting a mocked-up image of Buddha wearing DJ headphones on Facebook.
5721
Fishing guide Carol Gleeson watched as the hungry fresh water crocodile swallowed the water monitor whole, which is a type of goanna, at the Mary River near Pine Creek in Northern Territory.
5722
While a price was agreed, the money would be switched by the man hidden inside the cabinet for an identical brief case containing the worthless counterfeit notes .
5723
TV wine expert Oz Clarke puts to the test this oak bottle that claims to 'oak age' wine in hours rather than years .
I’m itching to start my test.
5724
As David Cameron tried to answer a question Victoria Prosser, 33, stood up and heckled him about homeless people who had served in the armed forces .
5725
Mariah, 45, and Nick, 34, have been battling about money and custody of their twins since he filed the divorce papers four months ago and even though there is a prenuptial agreement Nick is willing to air their dirty laundry — for a big fat check.
5726
McDonald's has defended the use of the spikes, claiming they were installed two years ago in an attempt to stop anti-social behaviour, not target the homeless.
5727
In a new chapter of her book, Hillary Clinton said her daughter Chelsea and son-in-law Marc Mezvinksy were far more organized and relaxed about the birth of baby Charlotte than she was about Chelsea .
5728
Back in 2007, the Wall Street Journal named her signature 'Ghetto Burger,' a double cheeseburger with bacon, grilled onions, ketchup, mustard and chili, the best in America.
5729
World number one Novak Djokovic eased into the third round of the Monte Carlo Masters with a straight sets victory over qualifier Albert Ramos-Vinolas.
World number seven David Ferrer joined Djokovic in the third round as his opponent Victor Estrella Burgos retired with a shoulder injury with Ferrer leading 6-2 2-0, while 11th seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga got his campaign under way with a 6-4 victory over Jan-Lennard Struff.
5730
The man, who has not been identified, is then handcuffed as onlookers are asked to move on by airport staff.
5731
The tiny animals were vaccinated against rabies and have been bottle-fed milk to build them up, before they will start feeding from a bowl .
5732
One in five Chinese restaurants are believed to be serving shark fin soup exploiting a legal loophole allowing people to bring the meat to this country if it is for personal consumption, a charity claims.
5733
Luongo was player of the tournament during Australia's successful Asian Cup in January and the 22-year-old creator has decided to play in the Barclays Premier League next season.
5734
Mrs Clawson, pictured left and right with her older child, was arrested after a teacher asked police to check on the wellbeing of the three-year-old daughter and found she was fine, according to reports .
5735
They plied Acara with rewards.
The two were introduced when Tuah was 3 months old, and for the last month, they have lived together full time, Gordon said.
5736
Sudheer Khamitkar, 42, shot his 38-year-old wife, Smita Haval Khamitkar, and their sons Arnav Khamitkar, 10 and Arush Khamitkar, 6, in separate rooms at their Tulsa home, police said.
5737
Italian police who arrested a crew attempting to smuggle desperate migrants to Europe on a luxury yacht have estimated their illegal cargo was worth $800,000.
5738
The 44-year-old, who married Alice Arnold in a private ceremony earlier this year, said that it was 'exhausting' to be constantly asked about being gay.
5739
Dental Danger .
Solution .
Dental Danger .
A lot of supermarket sandwiches have added sugar to enhance flavour, and refined carbohydrates such as white bread can contribute to dental decay, because they contain simple sugars that dissolve quickly.
Solution .
Dental Danger .
Solution .
5740
Baidoo, 26, has been 'granted permission to serve the defendant with the divorce summons using a private message through Facebook,' wrote Manhattan Supreme Court Justice Matthew Cooper according to the New York Daily News.
5741
The images, captured by the Dawn probe from 28,000 miles (45,000km) away, show that a pair of mysterious spots on the dwarf planet have different thermal properties.
5742
Sanchez was a student teacher at Marshall Elementary School in Eureka, Kansas, and also coached volleyball and basketball at Eureka Junior High School (pictured) Eureka resident Andrew Bratton called the allegations atrocious.
5743
Zeus (pictured above), an 11-year-old retired K-9 officer was honored in a special tribute on Wednesday by the Ridgefield Police Department .
5744
Valentine told her the image – which appeared to be of a man’s genitals – was of a patient’s heroin injection site, but Miss White and another nurse who saw it were suspicious and decided to report him to his boss.
5745
Daniel Sturridge faces a fight to be fit for Liverpool's FA Cup semi-final against Aston Villa on Sunday after being left out of their game against Newcastle United with an injury problem.
5746
Smiling in the Mallorcan sunshine: Clockwise from left, Queen Sofia, King Felipe, Queen Letizia, Princess Sofia and Princess Leonor pose for photographers  at Palma de Mallorca Cathedral .
5747
Francis plans to work for the $40billion taxi firm during the sport's off-season - a rare occurrence considering the money that professional players earn today .
5748
At a news conference Thursday afternoon, school spokesman Michael Schoenfeld said the school would not release the name of the student who admitted to hanging the noose, found early Wednesday in a plaza area at the heart of the campus.
5749
'They (Australians) threaten them with violence until they bugger off, throwing cans of Castlemaine in an Aussie version of sharia stoning' said Katie Hopkins .
5750
Gregory was fined £795 and ordered to carry out 150 hours of unpaid work when he admitted dishonestly obtaining a blue badge by misrepresenting his physical abilities at Luton Magistrates' Court (pictured)
5751
Saving Place, which opens Tuesday at the Museum of the City of New York, highlights what is widely seen as a watershed moment in the city's preservation movement, the 1963 demolition of the old Beaux Arts-style Pennsylvania Station to make way for Madison Square Garden.
5752
Kia Carlton, 26, said she had already felt suicidal after her daughter Telan died in her cot when she was just 11-months-old and said the disappearance of items from her daughter's grave was 'distressing'.
5753
Will Dominic Solanke, the England Under 18 striker whose goal in the final took his season’s Youth League tally to a tournament-best 12, be challenging Diego Costa for a place in the coming seasons?
5754
With 20 goals to his name this season, Watford captain Troy Deeney is regarded by many as the best striker outside the Premier League.
5755
A hard-hitting Scientology documentary slammed by John Travolta (pictured at a gala for the church in 2013) is unlikely to be aired in the UK because of fears that the broadcaster could be exposed to libel claims .
5756
Where you lay your head: An average bed can have approximately 10,000 dust mites living in it at one time, however it's not the dust mites that cause nasty allergic reactions, but their droppings .
5757
Liverpool players Mario Balotelli, Fabio Borini, Rickie Lambert and Lazar Markovic got more than they bargained for when YouTube star Bas van Velzen arrived at Melwood.
5758
Marouane Fellaini did not have the best of days at Goodison Park on Sunday, but that did not stop the Manchester United midfielder sharing a glass of bubbly with his twin brother Mansour on Tuesday.
5759
Stoke 23/10 .
Managers: Sam Allardyce (West Ham), Mark Hughes (Stoke) Head-to-head league record: West Ham wins 28, draws 18, Stoke wins 27 .
5760
Tottenham are considering a state-of-the-art stadium with a retractable pitch that enables them to become the home of a new NFL London franchise.
5761
Hernandez is currently in prison during his trial for the June 2013 shooting death of Odin Lloyd, who was dating his fiancée's sister.
An eBay user posted what appears to be laminated badge that featured a photo of former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez and identifying information about the 25-year-old .
5762
Sue Sharp was shocked to find a stamp on the £11 joint saying it had come from New Zealand despite Asda's packaging claiming it was born, reared and slaughtered in the UK.
5763
The animal’s heart, liver and gastrointestinal tract are easily visible (pictured) thanks to translucent skin on its under side.
5764
Fabregas suffered the break during Chelsea's win over Stoke City last Saturday, taking a hit to the face from Charlie Adam's forearm minutes before the Scot struck a 66-yard wondergoal at Stamford Bridge.
5765
Some of Laura's photos - all of women - are both erotically charged and melancholy - like this once called 'Sibylla' Laura directed the women getting them to pose in dark and empty spaces as illustrated in this photo called Airelle .
5766
A mother was left in shock after her four-year-old daughter discovered a four-foot snake in the bath - just a week after moving into the house.
5767
While British Airways only took eighth place, it still boasted a score of 91, coming behind Singapore Airlines, China Southern, Ethiopian and Air China.
5768
Real Madrid goalkeeper Iker Casillas showed his softer side by comforting a young fan who was hit by a wayward shot during his side's emphatic 9-1 win over Granada.
5769
He was standing in a smoking area behind the Despicable Me Minion Mayhem ride at the time, according to reports.
Nobody else was injured.
5770
Penrith-born Benaud enjoyed a remarkable Test career as a wily leg-spin bowler and middle-order batsman which ended with his retirement in 1964 .
5771
Roads around the Missouri city were flooded in the intense downpour, with one town recording more than two inches of rain in half an hour.
5772
Star buy: I was torn between the Matte Nail Polishes (£2.99), which come in plenty of great colours that go on evenly and dry really quickly, and the Baked Highlighter Powder in Gold (£4.99), which gives skin a beautiful, almost soft-focus, sheen.
5773
First, just a matter of seconds after the half-time break, with Sevilla two goals up on aggregate a cruising, Beto dropped the ball, under no pressure, at the feet of Salomon Rondon, allowing the Venezuelan to rekindle the tie from a matter of yards.
5774
Model Karlie Kloss is spreading her passion for computer coding and empowering young women by teaming up with the Flatiron School in New York to offer teen girls around the country scholarships to the academy's software engineering program this summer.
5775
‘The best player in the world, the most exciting player in the world, is [Javier] Pastore from Paris Saint-Germain,’ said Cantona, ‘
Just passing.
5776
On Monday, she took her family to Jerusalem's Old City - the reputed location of the historical religious event - to visit Armenian church St James Cathedral in order to baptise their little girl.
5777
Amy Wilkinson, 28, left, the granddaughter of former Manchester United manager Tommy Docherty,  has admitted falsely claiming almost £18,000 in benefits .
5778
Richie Benaud has passed away  at the age of 84 after a short battle with skin cancer but the man who spoke with an unrivalled blend of insight, authority and wit from commentary boxes at cricket matches across the globe will always be remembered.
5779
Tottenham defender Kyle Walker faces another four weeks on the sidelines after picking up an injury against Burnley earlier this month.
5780
Caceres, Spain .
For those hoping to head to the Big Apple, there's no better time to visit New York City than during the warm springtime months .
5781
Visit site .
Mr Jackson, who at 36 is five years Miss Middleton's senior, looked equally happy to be there, extending a protective arm around his girlfriend and at one point, giving her famous derrière a pat.
5782
Grab: Traevon Jacksonof the Wisconsin Badgers (left) defends Andrew Harrison of the Kentucky Wildcats in the second half during the NCAA Men's Final Four Semifinal at Lucas Oil Stadium on April 4 .
5783
The video, which was posted online, but has now been taken down, shows the mother -  wearing jeans and black top - attacking the student along with another girl - presumably her daughter.
5784
Scarface and Godfather actor Al Pacino is offering die-hard fans the chance to fly with him on a private jet – but it will set them back an eye-watering sum of £25,000 (or $41,500).
5785
Rescuers found Jordan sitting on the hull of his 35-foot sailboat that had lost its mast and capsized some 200 miles east off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina .
5786
Inside the first minute of Juve's Champions League quarter-final second-leg against Monaco on Wednesday night, the 30-year-old centre-half committed a deliberate handball after slipping onto the turf.
5787
Top seed Kei Nishikori made a successful start to his Barcelona Open title defence with a straight sets victory over Teymuraz Gabashvili on Tuesday.
5788
Schieffer began at the political affairs show 'Face the Nation' in 1991, asking direct questions to politicians in a Texas twang .
New career option:
5789
The parents of Catherine Grove, 28, believe she was been brainwashed by the Church of Wells, after escaping the so-called cult in Texas only to return six days later.
5790
Blue Bell Ice Cream announced Friday that it has suspended operations at an Oklahoma production facility that officials had previously connected to a foodborne illness linked to the deaths of three people.
5791
Although both Button and team-mate Fernando Alonso retired during the race at the Sepang International Circuit, the duo at least discovered the car was competitive alongside other midfield runners.
5792
Travellers can find a work-to-stay arrangement at many hostels, which allows them to stay for free while meeting people from around the world, and may even include some pay.
5793
A woman was forced to give birth to her son on the Interstate 65 North in Louisville, Kentucky, during gridlock traffic behind President Barack Obama's motorcade.
5794
The 27-year-old Scot has lost his last seven matches to the Serb, this one the Miami Open final 7-6 4-6 6-0 on a brutally punishing afternoon, suffering the undeserving ignominy of conceding another love set against his old rival.
5795
Pellegrini claimed he did not feel under pressure despite speculation mounting that he may be sacked at the end of a disappointing year.
5796
Ten minutes earlier Mrs Joll had received a telegram telling her that her son, Squadron Leader Joll, was 'missing believed killed' after he crash-landed his plane on a Dutch beach during a strafing attack on a German aircraft in 1940.
5797
Adebayor did have something of a renaissance under former Tottenham manager Tim Sherwood (right) Adebayor, pictured during a session, turned up at training in a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe .
5798
The council area of Dumfries and Galloway, in the southwest of the country, was the most popular, thanks in large part to Gretna Green.
5799
Worthen, who has worked at the school (pictured) for two years, allegedly had sexual contact with her there on April 10 after getting her mother's permission to let the girl stay late after school .
5800
I was impressed to discover that what Suzanne and Henry were really in town for was to check up on their 15 hotel staff – who spend a mandatory week working and gaining experience at the Mayfair hotel before the start of each new season.
5801
The officer explained that Caesar 'came out of the woods at me running at a trotting pace' and that he shot the pig, believing he was a feral animal .
5802
Patsy Kensit says the Duchess of Cambridge is 'our generation's suffragette'
This is the first time that the Duchess, who spends much of her time doing charity work, has been lauded as a feminist icon.
5803
A Georgia police chief who said he accidentally shot his ex-wife while they slept was indicted on Wednesday on a misdemeanor reckless-conduct charge, a prosecutor said.
5804
Smita Srivastava, of Allahabad, in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, currently holds the record for having the longest hair in India – documented at 6ft (1.8m) in the Limca Book of Records.
5805
Drogba cracks a smile alongside popstar Milian during the charity ball at London's swanky Dorchester hotel on Saturday night .
5806
Help to buy:
 50,000 Britons have signed up to a scheme offering discount starter homes to those desperate to get on the housing ladder .
5807
A University of South Carolina ex-sorority girl has been suspended after she was pictured writing that 'n*****s' were to blame for the campus's poor Internet connection on a whiteboard in a study room.
5808
It is little over a year since Alan Pardew became involved in a rather ugly touchline confrontation with Manuel Pellegrini while managing Newcastle.
5809
Drew Mitchell  is tackled by Alapati Leiua during the match between Toulon and Wasps at Felix Mayol Stadium .
5810
Raheem Sterling may hold all the cards in his contract dispute with Liverpool, but he needs to focus on his football rather than his pay-packet, according to former QPR boss Harry Redknapp.
5811
Stephanie Flanders (pictured), a former girlfriend of Mr Miliband, hosted the dinner party where he first met his future wife .
5812
'We have grown so accustomed to having Australia post as the only viable option that they've settled for incompetence,' Chris said.
5813
'I hope that Manuel Pellegrini stays at Man City and I hope he is able to correct the things that have gone wrong in the last four months.
I have enjoyed when I have watched them.
5814
Intriguingly, Sherwood hinted on Monday that if Ramsey's tenure at Loftus Road proves short-lived, he would ask to bring him to Villa.
5815
Defoe did, however, do his reputation with Sunderland fans no harm by scoring a sublime volley as The Black Cats defeated rivals Newcastle 1-0 earlier this month.
5816
The proposal would also give the force of state law to some of brownback's policies, including one that requires 'temporary cash assistance' recipients to hold down jobs, look for work or enroll in job training programs.
5817
Mr Miliband's remarks come after the Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon this morning said Labour could only govern with the support of the SNP – and laid out what the party must do to get it .
5818
It's been a longtime tradition for the Conga to play during Memphis Grizzlies games with cartoon bongos appearing on the giant court TV screen.
5819
The circuit itself hasn't quite delivered many spectacular races, and you will be hard pressed to create a top five Bahrain Grand Prix list.
5820
Josh Buckley made his first million at 18 with his games app MinoMonsters but the app has since gone into decline seeing Josh seeking a five million dollar investment .
5821
In a TV interview in 2008, Cameron told GMTV: 'The first game I ever went to was an Aston Villa game and so I am an Aston Villa fan.'
5822
In the 1980s, Mr Osborne attended St Paul's School for boys, where a place for a pupil boarding costs now £10,800-a-year.
It is absolutely illusory.
5823
When they tried to put the puzzle back together, they hit trouble after it proved to be more difficult than expected .
 'This one is not right,' she said.
5824
The Indiana bill forbids the state or local government from 'substantially burdening' a person's religious beliefs unless that burden is 'essential' to further a 'compelling' government interest, and is the 'least restrictive' means of achieving that aim.
5825
Hatra, 68 miles southwest of ISIS-held city of Mosul, is 2,000 years old and is a UNESCO World Heritage site .
Hatra is 68 miles southwest of the city of Mosul.
5826
In Volume One of his two part book 'The American People,' Kramer says that Abraham Lincoln was gay and his killer John Wilkes Booth was actually Lincoln's spurned gay lover.
5827
Missouri's governor ordered hundreds more National Guard troops to the St Louis suburb following the grand jury's decision not to indict white cop Darren Wilson over the shooting of unarmed black teen Michael Brown .
5828
Mr Smith said some owners have had small classrooms built within their superyachts so their children can keep up with their studies.
5829
McShane said the majority of his work was comprised of desert rescues, but there were a number of arrests in the town with a population of only 100 people .
5830
The family had adopted the pit bull Smash from friend of their neighbor on March 16 and said there were no previous signs of aggression (above Smash and Gavin)
5831
Having already lost the Spanish Super Cup to Simeone at the start of the season, and the first league meeting between the two teams, since the FIFA gala Ancelotti has been knocked out of the Copa del Rey by his nemesis and beaten 4-0 in the league.
5832
Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience' - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt.
5833
Ms Goff's ex-husband, Sydney banker David Basha, told Daily Mail Australia last year that he was disgusted with his former wife's decision to publicly announce her identity.
5834
Bristol City (3-5-2): Fielding, Ayling, Flint, Williams; Tavernier, K.Smith, Pack, Freeman (Elliott 90), Bryan; Agard (Emmanuel-Thomas 82), Wilbraham .
5835
Inter Milan sporting director Piero Ausilio has admitted being left feeling 'sad' after the club lost patience and decided to sell Philippe Coutinho to Liverpool.
5836
The white-cheeked macaque, from Tibet, China, has a distinctive rounded penis compared to other macaques .
He said: 'This area has been little studied.
5837
Ruth Davison, leading critic of David Cameron's plan to extent the right to buy scheme is a Labour party member and the owner of a £1million house in Islington, London .
5838
Plastic Jesus says he got the idea while driving down Melrose Avenue in L.A. a few weeks ago, when traffic was brought to a standstill because of a Kardashian shopping on the street .
5839
Friends of an Uzbekistani woman who died this week claim she was the world's oldest person ever having reached the age of 135.
5840
Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, told police Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein groped her during a 'business meeting' at his Tribeca office in Manhattan on Friday night .
5841
'Brazil could lose, 1-0 or 2-0, but to lose 7-1 and the second game (third place play-off) we lost 3-0, it's something only God can explain.'
5842
Jose Mourinho praised John Terry's performance against Arsenal - hailing it as the Chelsea captain's best under him.
‘It was the best JT has ever played.
5843
9. Giglio, Italy – scene of the Costa Concordia disaster .
January saw the  70th anniversary of the camp's liberation, a possible reason for the surge in interest.
5844
The hometown of Stephanie Scott has paid tribute to the much-loved teacher by filling the sky with brightly coloured hot-air balloons in a spectacular display.
5845
Prosecutors have filed a restraining order against both men to stay away from Ann Rule, and the two sons accused of wrongdoing are set to appear in court on April 30.
5846
Mr Nesbitt, who is a member of the union’s health and safety committee, told the NASUWT’s annual conference in Cardiff: ‘This year alone I have been personally involved in some refusal to teach, where at one school a six-year-old boy broke the arm of a deputy head teacher.
5847
Airport officials asked them to wait but instead of going to the terminal building, these rescue team members waited in front of the nosewheel of an aircraft,” a senior airport official told Mail Today.
5848
Mr Heslop was appointed as executive principal at the Marlowe Academy in Ramsgate Kent, pictured, in 2013 .
5849
England's plane landed in Manchester to allow their northern-based players and staff, including Carrick and Rooney (left) and Gary Neville (right) to disembark after the draw with Italy in Turin .
5850
Lucy Panton, former News of the World crime reporter, had her conviction quashed by the Court of Appeal after being the first to be found guilty .
5851
Gallegos, who runs Dogpatch Resort, says that Cooper always eats very quickly.
To date the video of Cooper's ice cream outing has been watched more than seven million times.
5852
'The biggest thing is David De Gea, and keeping him at the football club,' Neville told the Manchester Evening News.
'He’s winning football games on his own.
5853
Played by Dame Maggie Smith in the ITV drama, Violet, Countess of Grantham may be coming back in the new American show The Gilded Age, from Downton creator Julian Fellowes.
5854
But in reality, I never thought I’d be out for that long – I kept having setbacks after thinking I was about to return so I couldn’t stop and enjoy myself.
5855
María Jose Carrascosa was released from a New Jersey jail on Friday after spending nearly 9 years behind bars for refusing to return her daughter to the United States .
5856
Elsewhere, Houston's James Harden and Dwight Howard set personal play-off bests in points and rebounds respectively as the Rockets edged Dallas 130-128  to take a 3-0 lead in the all-Texan NBA first-round playoff series.
5857
Almost three years after nearly leaving Liverpool Jordan Henderson has committed his long-term future to the club convinced he can win silverware at Anfield.
5858
Celebrities have been told to stop taking selfies at this year's Cannes Film Festival by director Thierry Fremaux (pictured, models Petra Nemcova, left, and Victoria Bonya and Hofit Golan, right, at last year's event)
5859
The use of side panels, as seen on (L-R) Kate Moss, Cara Delevingne and Yasmin Le Bon, creates an hourglass shape and gives the illusion of a thinner waist, more shapely figure and hides imperfections .
5860
Paul Scholes criticised Mandzukic for 'making a meal' of many of his second-half clashes during Atletico Madrid's 0-0 draw with Real Madrid in a Champions League quarter-final .
5861
The calf's mother watched in horror as the hippo was flung into the air before being dragged along the surface of the water in the iSimangaliso Wetland Park, in eastern South Africa.
5862
Celebrity website TMZ claims the stepchildren of Kim Howe (right) have hired lawyers to look into the possibility of a wrongful death suit against Bruce Jenner (left)
5863
4
mph in ten minutes .
Bridge over (not at all) troubled water .
Mayday!
Mayday!
Canal swamped by two boats .
It's all water over the bridge (at last)
5864
Clinton also intends to sell herself as being able to work with Congress, businesses and world leaders.
She was an outstanding secretary of state.
5865
Mustafa Kamal resigned as ICC president on Wednesday, accusing India of influencing the outcome of the Cricket World Cup quarter-final against Bangladesh.
5866
McDonald's announced Wednesday that it will increase starting wages for full- and part-time employees to a dollar over the minimum wage where company-owned restaurants operate.
5867
At times you are left wondering what Eden Hazard, Willian and Oscar make of it all when Mourinho starts working on team shape six days before a clash with Arsenal.
5868
Reality star 'Mama' June Shannon and her estranged husband Mike 'Sugar Bear' Thompson have filed a missing persons report after his older brother disappeared three days ago.
5869
Scroll down for video .
Australian comedian Dave Hughes (pictured) called radio broadcaster Derryn Hinch a 'w**ker' on national television .
5870
Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, told police Weinstein groped her during a 'business meeting' at his Tribeca Film Center office in Manhattan on March 27.
5871
Downton, a former England wicketkeeper, is appointed managing sirector of England and Wales Cricket Board, with his position taking effect from February 1, 2014.
5872
Brad Reynolds said he used to spend a lot of time writing about his travels in journals, but now writes reviews to preserve his memories .
5873
Chelsea's on loan midfielder Oriol Romeu goes up against Sportsmail's Martin Keown as the pair predict the scores for the weekend's Premier League and FA Cup matches.
5874
Beatrice Tollman, founder of a luxury hotel chain, made her most recent donation of £20,000 to the Tories earlier this month to boost the party's General Election campaign coffers .
5875
Olympic champion Alistair Brownlee recovered from a fall to claim victory in his return to World Triathlon Series action in Cape Town.
5876
The findings suggest that life living beneath the ocean floor and in the cracks of rocks deep below the surface could be far more diverse than previously thought.
5877
An American sailor has suffered serious injuries after plunging eight floors from a  balcony of a hotel before landing into a swimming pool.
5878
Have you ever wondered exactly what happens to the unused toiletries in hotel room bathrooms? Or how a hotel handles it if a guest dies during their stay?
5879
Ahead of a weekend featuring drama from the Barclays Premier League and FA Cup semi-finals, Sportsmail brings you the latest squad news, odds and stats on every  fixture as it breaks.
PREMIER LEAGUE .
Manchester City vs West Ham United (1.30pm) Newcastle United vs Tottenham Hotspur (4pm) FA CUP SEMI-FINAL .
5880
School officials told reporters that after Gao lost his voice the classmate who gave him the water 'became very afraid' and told teachers it was meant as a joke and that she did not think he would drink it.
5881
When the officers got to the roof, some teens jumped to another roof and ran away, however Kuta and his 14-year-old companion, who has not been named, were pinned in by a dividing wall.
5882
The oldest team to win the Champions League also hailed from Italy as the AC Milan starting line-up which successfully defeated Liverpool in the Champions League final on May 23, 2007 had an average age of 31y 34d.
5883
The couple are now offering a £1,000 reward to anyone who can return their pets, who have been missing for a week, and have reported the theft to police.
5884
A Bafta-winning Kidulthood actor sent abusive tweets including a death threat to the film’s writer because he thought he was trying to ruin his career, a court heard today.
5885
The enormous 20,000 square foot mansion in the ritzy suburb of Barrington is opulent and private, sitting by two lakes in eight acres of manicured gardens.
5886
But the mansion also became where Sean Grey, its manager, and Nicholas Worlds, a former adult-themed business investor, ran a modeling agency dubbed Pharaoh's Daughters .
5887
The fireball was captured on camera on Sunday by the United Kingdom Meteor Observing Network (UKMON) in Portadown, County Armagh.
5888
A 2012 FBI search of Gentile's home turned up a list of the . stolen art pieces and their estimated value, as well as police . uniforms.
5889
Floyd Mayweather Snr has ducked the verbal jabs aimed at him from Manny Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach, insisting that 'he can say what he wants'.
5890
A new Ebola jab is being given to people living in the West African countries most badly hit by the virus after human trials in unaffected countries proved successful.
5891
The company is facing a massive backlash over its billboard campaign — including vandalised posters, a petition, a protest rally and even a bomb threat.
5892
While this experiment was performed in a controlled environment and not on the operating table (stock image pictured), the researchers said it is clear more stringent security measures are needed .
5893
The mask, branded with Fabregas's initial and squad number 'C4', was made by the Ortholabsport, an orthopedic centre in Milan, and their craftsmen Stefano Duchini and Lucilla Pezzoni.
5894
She was one of two young girls predator Glitter was convicted of abusing when he lived in the seaside resort of Vung Tau in Vietnam in 2006.
5895
He then states: ‘We need to sit down in the boat.
Meanwhile the killer whales begin circling and swimming dangerously close to and underneath the tiny boat.
5896
Mr Spowart, in a black wetsuit, paddled out on his surfboard to where the horses were stranded, past trees, bushes and fences submerged in the floodwater that was almost as high as his shoulders.
5897
In 2013 Natural England said claims made by Lulworth Estate owner James Weld that the 2009 Coastal Access Act handed them responsibility for the steps to Durdle Door were untrue.
5898
Sarao (pictured in court) spent a third night in custody last night after failing to pay the £5million surety demanded by the courts to grant him bail .
5899
Taking him down:
Hurst, a former corrections officer, then grabbed the young man (above) and took him down .
Taken in:
5900
‘That means over 600,000 extra free childcare places available for families every year – nine million extra hours of childcare a week and parents able to work an extra 78 days a year without any childcare costs – all by 2017.’
5901
Major General Allen Batschelet says that 10 percent of young men and women who sign up to join the Army are currently refused because they are too heavy.
5902
Pope Francis urged the international community not to 'look the other way' and act over the killings of Christians around the globe, during his Easter Monday address.
5903
Conrad Clitheroe, 54 and Gary Cooper, 45, from Stockport, along with their ex-pat friend Neil Munro were stopped by police for writing down aircraft registration numbers at Fujairah Airport.
5904
The Prime Minister will tell voters in England that new powers for the Scottish Parliament mean it ‘can now have a big impact on your job, your income, and investment in your area’.
5905
Mr Blanks, pictured, here with his sisters Kelly, left, and Lindsey, and mother Sandra, right, was 'hysterical' when he returned to his home in Truro in Cornwall following the attack on April 17 at 8.30pm .
5906
Later that afternoon, Watson crashed the Lamborghini Gallardo he was driving, killing Terry, a former race car driver who was the operations manager at the Richard Petty Driving Experience at Walt Disney World.
5907
'I want to thank you for making me happy by giving me a new warm and safe environment,' Marie began her handwritten letter, which was published on Children's Healthcare of Atlanta's blog.
5908
Glenn Murray has scored a goal on average every 91 minutes this season - giving him a better minutes-per-goal ratio than anyone else in the top flight.
5909
The sound of the fish making impact with the youngster’s face is not dissimilar to a sound effect used in a cartoon.
5910
She has faced mounting pressure from Congress, where some questioned her competence in the wake of a scathing government watchdog report detailing allegations that agents attended sex parties with prostitutes.
5911
Former England star Andrew Flintoff thiks time is running out for Pietersen to resurrect his England career .
'I just think Kevin is running out of time a little bit.
5912
The FA Cup, the oldest knockout football competition in the world, is set to be rebranded as the Emirates FA Cup in a new £30million sponsorship deal .
5913
Lamas holds an open training session for fans and media at the UFC Gym on in Fairfax, Virginia .
'If I keep performing well then the title shot will come,' he said.
5914
Giordano believes he was let go because police knew he was a member of the press, but says they tried to block him from continuing to photograph the event.
5915
'Basically, it was a sinus surgery.
Dr Timothy Haffey removed the wire in a 20-minute sinus surgery (left the wire being removed from Parker's nose).
5916
Loyal: Jarvis, a Spelman College grad, went on to work on Obama's 2008 campaign and then Michelle's staff leading up to the election before becoming her top personal aide.
5917
Leaving Carmel, you find yourself at the edge of the spectacular area known as Big Sur: wild and often mountainous terrain battling it out with the equally wild Pacific.
5918
But worse was to come.
The toilet and bath both began overflowing with sewage, flooding Mrs Aresti's flat in the process .
But worse was to come.
5919
I'm like, 'OK, this is the way it's going to be and if it's going to be this way I'm not going to screw it up.'
It can go any way so don't screw it up.'
5920
Scottish fans from across the UK are now routinely asked, at the drop of a hat, to change travel plans to facilitate Friday-night football and noon kick-offs on a Saturday or Sunday.
5921
This image from Nasa's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter shows that a thick layer of dust on Mars covers the glaciers, so they appear as the surface of the ground, but radar measurements show that there are glaciers composed of frozen water underneath the dust .
5922
After a low-key day campaigning in his constituency in Doncaster on Saturday, the Labour leader spent all of Sunday and Monday with his family .
5923
The first ever drawing of The Beatles' famous Yellow Submarine which is dubbed the 'holy grail of memorabilia' is set to fetch more than £10,000 when it is sold at auction in Dallas, Texas, on Thursday .
5924
The Hammers boss was incensed that Eliaquim Mangala was not penalised for a foul against Stewart Downing, who managed to stay on his feet despite a late challenge from City’s £32million defender.
5925
David Adam Pate, 25, (mugshot from 2013 left and in court on Thursday right) from Lancaster, North Carolina told his mother he enjoyed knifing 33-year-old Ricky James 39 times after luring him into some woods with wine in November 2013.
5926
Abramovich has been trying to buy a home in the fashionable Neve Tzedek quarter of Tel Aviv since 2008 when he had a $30m (£20.5m) bid for Chelouche House, formerly the neighbourhood school, turned down.
5927
Underwear model and animal rights activist Sarah Stage shared this picture of her post-baby body on her Instagram account on Sunday - just four days after giving birth to her son James Hunter .
5928
This principle applies to the Nanoheat Wireless Heated Mug and the margins in this case are between 68°C and 71°C (155 and 160°F).
5929
The film, 'Child 44', starring Tom Hardy, Vincent Cassel and Gary Oldman, tells the story of a serial killer who targets children in the Stalin era.
5930
Ms Cowan, of Edinburgh, asked in her will for a bursary scheme to be set up in her name at George Watson's College where famous faces such as Sir Chris Hoy (left) and rugby legend Gavin Hastings (right) were taught .
5931
Heart-wrenching: Malaja's relatives, including her aunt (right), were heard sobbing and screaming, including one enraged woman (left) who cried out: 'I want revenge!'
5932
Manchester City have told Jason Denayer they want him to spend next season in the English Championship.
John Guidetti will be defending this charge.’
5933
Drug Enforcement Administration boss Michele Leonhart testifies before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in a hearing on sexual harassment and misconduct allegations.
5934
He recommends a group of no fewer than five attempt tucking into such a massive omelette.
It's recommended a group of no fewer than five attempt tucking into such a massive omelette .
5935
It comes after the best friend of Georgina Bartter, theSydney teenager who died after taking ecstasy at a dance party, pleaded guilty to supplying the drug that allegedly led to her death .
5936
Customers say they are happy to pay extra for breathing healthy air while enjoying coffee and meals .
The city of nine million suffered heavy smog on 154 days in 2014.
5937
CHELSEA (4-2-3-1): Cech 7; Ivanovic 6, Cahill 7, Terry 6.5, Azpilicueta 6.5; Ramires 6.5, Matic 6; Willian 8 (Zouma 84), Fabregas 6 (Mikel 90), Hazard 7 (Cuadrado 88); Drogba 7.
5938
The traveller sits before corn, a café, boats and water, before he is featured rocking and making gestures with his hand .
Creature comfort!
5939
Gareth Bale is a huge doubt for Real Madrid's Champions League quarter-final second leg match against Atletico Madrid with a calf injury.
5940
Defender Clint Hill, who scored in Tuesday night's 3-3 draw at Aston Villa, enjoyed the taste of victory in his first west London derby when QPR won 1-0 at home to Chelsea in 2011.
5941
Woodman's product - a camera which can be fixed to helmets, the body, or a hand-held pole - made waves in when it debuted in 2006.
5942
This week, Colby had the tumour removed free-of-charge thanks to the US-based Little Baby Face Foundation (LBFF).
We can't thank them enough.'
5943
Dishing the details: Giuliana Rancic looked fantastic as she left the Trump International Hotel in New York City on Monday, just a day before the release of her new tell-all Going Off Script, which details her romance with Jerry O'Connell .
Visit site .
The TV star confessed 'I do not have an eating disorder' - nor has she ever - in her Today interview .
5944
Lauren Hill, who is pictured playing for Mount St. Joseph University in Cincinnati in November, died in hospital on Friday - aged just 19 - after a brave battle with a rare form of brain cancer .
5945
Panasonic Japan, which designed the device, said that once the turbofan has moved the air flow to the front of the device, a 'high-pressure jet airflow' creates straight, direct blasts of air.
5946
To date the clip of their traumatic theme park outing has been watched more than 17 million times on Facebook.
Losing consciousness:
5947
Joan Walsh Anglund, now 89, wrote in her 1967 book A Cup of Sun; 'A bird doesn’t sing because he has an answer, he sings because it has a song.'
5948
'There's other teams fighting for their lives as well.
Tim Sherwood is confident Aston Villa can secure their Premier League survival with five games remaining .
5949
PSG beat Ligue 1 bitter rivals Olympique de Marseille 3-2, thrashed St Etienne 4-1 in the French Cup semi-finals, and won the League Cup final 4-0 against Bastia on Saturday.
5950
Mr Miliband's party has jumped to 35 per cent, up one point from last month.
The Tories meanwhile remain stuck on 33 per cent, according to the pollsters Ipsos MORI.
5951
University of Waterloo astrophysicists have created a 3D master map of the universe spanning nearly two billion light years.
Scroll down for video .
5952
The Jackson County jury found Susan Monica guilty of murdering two men about a year apart, then abusing their corpses by feeding them to the animals at her farm, The Medford Mail Tribune reported.
5953
A Muslim student showed the document to her parents who contacted the Council of American Islamic Relations and they complained to the school .
5954
Bryan Santana of Orlando, Florida, who is accused of killing Shelby Fazio and her dog last October, was described by prosecutors as 'delighting' in the pain he allegedly caused the young woman.
5955
Report:
The police report reveals that Dr. Fredric Brandt was suffering from extreme depression before his death and wanted to kill himself .
5956
Pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers who drink organic milk may be putting their child’s health at risk, scientists claim.
5957
A 28-year-old teacher has been charged after she allegedly exchanged multiple nude pictures and videos with a 14-year-old student she began texting when he was just 12.
5958
If Beckham gets the snug look just right, his fellow Essex boys, including Jeff Brazier (pictured right) are guilty of going a little too tight .
5959
The 27-year-old bared all to those at the Hyland Race Colours Plate in Canterbury, Austalia as he attempted to ride Miss Royale to victory.
5960
Joe Root was denied the chance of scoring 200 runs against the West Indies as he was left stranded at the middle of the wicket due to an error by James Anderson.
5961
I can't remember anyone saying that such shows of religious devotion were out of place at a football match.
He was sentenced to life in prison without parole.
5962
If your name is Nigel you are twice as likely as the general population to vote Ukip, according to research by YouGov.
Scroll down for video .
5963
When officers arrived they found a 19-year-old with stab wounds in a barber shop being tended to by customers.
Tracie Coles said: 'So sad, RIP.
5964
In a new interview with Vogue Kate Upton has revealed that the photographer Terry Richardson released footage of her dancing in a bikini in a video called 'Cat Daddy' without her permission .
5965
An apprentice electrician fell off a ladder and died in front of his father after he was electrocuted while testing lights in a factory, an inquest has heard.
5966
Android has a similar feature that works over Bluetooth.
The app creates a localised network in which each phone becomes a node, and the data is passed between nodes.
5967
While centre-forward Diego Forlan became Sergio Aguero, became Radamel Falcao, became Diego Costa who has now become that bloodied battering-ram Mario Mandzukic.
5968
On viewing the CCTV security cameras, the store manager said he saw one of the detectives finding the rent money box under the counter, and Detective Ian Cyrus grabbing a handful of it .
5969
Allegri warned that Monaco, who have conceded only four goals in eight games on their way to the quarter-finals, would be a completely different proposition to Borussia Dortmund, who Juventus beat 5-1 on aggregate in the last 16.
5970
Shell we just leave it then?
Flat on his back, the tortoise lost his balance when the female moved away -  and he had to scrabble in the mud .
5971
Danielle Davis says she looked to her faith when she was faced with the prospect of losing her husband Brian in 2011, just seven months after they were married when he was involved in a near fatal motorcycle crash .
5972
Elvis took great pleasure in flying friends there in his smaller Hound Dog II jet to check on the progress of the refit, which he personally oversaw.
5973
Sir Alex underachieved in Europe: only two Champions League wins in his time – just one more than Liverpool in the same period, and the same number as Jose Mourinho (who won those in significantly fewer years).
5974
Kate T. Parker, from Atlanta, Georgia, was inspired to create her aptly-titled series Strong is the New Pretty while pouring over photos she snapped of her daughters Ella, nine, and Alice, six, playing sports and enjoying their childhoods.
5975
He has become so relaxed around humans that he regularly falls asleep in the laps and hands of residents.
She said: ‘He used to be my personal alarm clock every day.
5976
Only a couple of days after the self-called Son of God declared he would be prepared to cross the Atlantic to face the Cobra, Ward revealed that his overdue ring comeback will be taking place in his California hometown on June 20.
5977
Hughes, 31, spent the money on himself, including camping equipment and a stag holiday to Las Vegas, Salisbury Crown Court heard.
Holiday:
5978
Following his 2am run, the video then cuts to Mayweather launching himself into a grueling training session involving pad work, strength training and power drills before the video fades to black with the tagline: 'Champions Never Rest'.
5979
Derby manager Steve McClaren has called speculation linking him with the Newcastle job as 'disrespectful' John Carver is the current incumbent in the Newcastle hotseat having replaced Alan Pardew in January .
5980
Chloe died in 2012 from head injuries sustained after being forced to ride a motorbike three times her weight for days on end by her drug addicted mother Ashley Polkinghorne and her partner at the time .
5981
Earlier in the day, security forces rescued Cynthia Cheroitich, 19, who spent two days hiding in a wardrobe at Garissa University College and drinking body lotion to survive.
5982
The study revealed that women are more reluctant than men to do something harmful in the short-term to secure a better result in the long term (file photo)
5983
Carmen and Mike Gorgan, pictured speaking to their lawyer in the courtroom of Marseille's Criminal Court today, are accused of paying a Roma gang £6,500 and a BMW for newborn baby boy Tony .
5984
Hugh Adair (left) was given a 12-month jail term, suspended for two years and Donna Denton (right) was sentenced to eight months, suspended for 18 months .
5985
The animal charity has no more legal actions left under the Hunting Act after its decision last month to drop the case against William Bryer, joint master of the renowned Cattistock Hunt (pictured) in Dorset .
5986
The prank was captured by video but following complaints, the tourism organisers in Ecuador took the video down.
5987
'The Irish FA became aware on Tuesday morning of some damage having been caused overnight to the West Stand of the National Football Stadium at Windsor Park,' an IFA spokesman told the Belfast Telegraph.
5988
Derry Mathews will take on Venezuelan knockout artist Ismael Barroso for the interim WBA world title after Richar Abril pulled out of their April 18 date.
5989
The theme park is set to open for Hunger Games fans in October 2016, and will include 27 different latest-in-technology rides and attractions .
5990
The new research revealed that between 1989 and 2008 almost three quarters of popular UK box office films depicted alcohol use - but only six per cent were classified as adult only .
5991
Cecily Strong, (center) the Saturday Night Live cast member and host of the White House Correspondents Dinner, skewered Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and Republican hopefuls during her 20-minute speech .
Visit site .
5992
The latter rule is something that even the NHS has yet fully put in place, with nurses who trained in European countries still able to treat patients without any formal language checks thanks to bureaucratic rules barring the Nursing and Midwifery Council testing EU candidates.
5993
I am blessed with real friends & am a real friend myself.'
Kim's acting career began when she was six-years-young, having starred in a long list of Disney TV films .
5994
Farewell:
'You inspired me': He continued: 'I [hate] that I never got the chance to meet u in person but know you inspired me the whole time!
5995
However, speaking to Channel 4 News tonight, Mr Farage insisted he was looking forward to the rest of the campaign and had 'a bit of the old vim and vigour back'.
5996
'This is a long-term thing and we're looking forward to the future with him that gets us back to our identity on and off the pitch and bring the positive times back to this football club.'
5997
Lehnardt's lawyer said she was shocked with what had happened so she researched local Alcoholics Anonymous groups and met with a sponsor, named Heidi, who encouraged Lehnardt to tell her about her divorce, her drinking and the incident that led to her losing her children.
5998
The disputed free-kick changed things.
Celtic defender Virgil van Dijk doubles Celtic's lead with a stunning free-kick against Dundee at Den's Park .
5999
The 41-year-old man - identified only by his initials S.G. - is said to have posted a 'blasphemous' status on his Facebook page after watching a news bulletin about the war in Iraq on television last July.
6000
Thousands of fish, weighing 100 tonnes, have been found dead at a lake in Huizhou City in southern China's Guangdong Province .
6001
Girls day out: Michelle Obama is seen leaving in an SUV with her mother, Marian Robinson, after they dined  at Lupa restaurant on Thompson Street in  New York's Greenwich Village on Saturday .
6002
Ms Woodford, from the Pontypridd area, is believed to have been attacked in woodland in Pontypridd on Tuesday before being taken back to the property of a man she is thought to have left a town centre pub with, police said.
6003
Last month's average temperature of 56.4°F (13.6°C) was the hottest March on record, averaging 1.5°F (0.85°C) above the average for the 20th century.
6004
Flyhalf Matt Giteau and winger Drew Mitchell, who both play for Toulon, as well as flanker George Smith, who also plays in France, would immediately qualify to play at the World Cup later this year.
6005
Lord Stow's Bakery is the home to the Portuguese egg custard tart .
In the Town Square we were intrigued to find Lord Stow’s Bakery, home to the Portuguese egg custard tart.
6006
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers accepts Champions League football is unlikely to return to Anfield next season, but insisted once again that contract rebel Raheem Sterling will do.
6007
Distance from Earth: 63 light years . Temperature: Up to 3,000°C (5,400°F) Wind speed: 620mph (1,000km/h) Conditions: Glass particles in the atmosphere give it its dazzling blue colour.
6008
Leaj Jarvis Price (right), a nursing student, was allegedly shot dead by her Marine veteran husband, Eric Heath Price (pictured, left, kissing Mrs Price) in an Alabama doctor's office on Monday .
6009
Jim Furyk defeated Kevin Kisner on the second play-off hole to win the RBC Heritage title at Hilton Head and record a first PGA Tour victory since 2010.
6010
Novak Djokovic overcame a strong challenge from Rafael Nadal to reach the Monte Carlo Masters final with a 6-3, 6-3 win.
6011
Disneyland Park, originally Disneyland, is the first of two theme parks built at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California, opened on July 17, 1955 .
6012
Especially as the big reveal came after Naughty Boy, 30, from Watford, retweeted a fan video entitled, 'Naughty Boy Saved Zaughty' - an amalgamation of Zayn and Naughty Boy's names - which said 'Zaughty Will Rise'
6013
Karen Davis (pictured) from Port Pirie has caused controversy after a picture appeared on Google Maps Street View showing her bearing her size-K breasts .
6014
More than 70 animals have been seized from a filthy mobile home belonging to an animal hoarder banned from keeping pets.
Scroll down for video .
6015
Mr Mitchell, who founded An Noor Mosque in Acton where Mr Arwani was a preacher until 2011, was arrested on Wednesday night on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.
6016
Rick Yoes, 57 (pictured), spent the weekend in jail in an attempt to avoid paying $1,700 in fines related to nearly two decades of code violations for his overgrown lawn .
6017
Angelique Kerber rallied past Madison Keys to win the Family Circle Cup on Sunday, capturing six of the last seven games for a 6-2, 4-6, 7-5 victory.
6018
Goals: Bryson 3, Ince 28, Bent 29, (pen) 65.
Bent rifles a penalty into the top corner in the second half to add Derby's fourth goal and his second .
6019
Baby fame:
Ms Raunigk, then 55, hit the headlines in Germany ten years ago, when she gave birth to her youngest child, Leila (pictured in 2005)
6020
Nelson allegedly broke into a River Birch Drive home and told the woman to take him to a Manning Avenue home (pictured), where he then told her to get into the trunk of the car .
6021
Kun was refused admission to schools and locals would avoid contact with him, so he spent his days playing in the woods alone .
The boy was refused admission to local schools and locals would avoid contact with him, so he spent his days playing in the woods alone.
6022
As a separate trip, the 62 day Ultimate Big Cat Safari starts from £45,000 per person including international and internal flights, transfers and all meals.
6023
In the west London neighbourhood of Notting Hill, prices average £1,629,495, while Regent's Park comes in with an average property value of £1,338,467 and Hampstead Heath close behind at £1,270,274.
6024
Doctors are still trying to find out what the future holds for 17-year-old Natasha Willard after she was diagnosed with inflammation of the brain when she fell ill while studying for her A-levels in Cwmbran in Wales.
6025
Support:
'Non-evidence based medical recommendations presented without the appropriate caveats are costly and potentially harmful,' they wrote.
6026
‘Football was all I had and all I wanted,’ he said.
‘John started showing me his coaching journals that he had kept for years, logging every session.
6027
'You see mistakes all over Europe and I think the referees here have been good, I have no problems with that.
'I think it should be the same rules for everybody.
6028
Responding yesterday to accusations of sexism that bubbled up following his  dust up with Guthrie, Paul said, 'I think I have been universally short-tempered and testy with both male and female reporters.
6029
Reunited: Alfie the Yorkshire Terrier (with owner Kirsty Mitton, right) - who travelled from Wednesbury, West Midlands, to Buckinghamshire to pick him up after he was rescued the RSPCA inspector Stephanie Law (left)
6030
Ulster and Ireland Declan Fitzpatrick has been forced to retire on medical grounds after multiple concussions .
He also made 98 Ulster appearances.
6031
Ceara also isn't quite as excited about humiliating her customers as they are about being humiliated, which she says makes it easy for her to compartmentalize and separate her job from her personal life.
6032
Today, police issued CCTV images of Walters of Withington, Manchester, hanging around outside the complex after she admitted three counts of burglary at Manchester’s Minshull Street Crown Court.
6033
Think half Scotch Egg, half Easter Egg, the 'Chotch Egg is the world’s first gourmet chocolate scotch egg and combines two of Fortnum & Mason’s best loved products.
6034
A second person is dead and five are missing following a powerful storm that capsized several sailboats in a regatta near Mobile Bay, Alabama on Saturday (above footage taken by someone on a boat during the storm)
6035
The judge said the boy's parents, who are Latvian, had accepted that their son had suffered from 'poor dental hygiene' due to a diet high in sugar, which had caused tooth decay (file picture)
6036
Such is the precarious nature of the promotion race, however, that the division could have a completely different top two on Monday evening if Watford and Norwich, who host mid-table Sheffield Wednesday, win and Bournemouth fail to secure three points against Birmingham.
6037
Missed: Mavis was reportedly close to the park's boat launch at the time of the alligator's attack .
The alligator struck at the Arlington Park boat launch, pictured .
6038
Intense:
Best efforts:
Intense:
Residents said the fire, whic is being investigated, was so intense it melted the paint off buildings nearby .
6039
But Dr Spence warned that newer apps that monitor your heart rate, blood pressure and blood oxygen levels could be causing unnecessary worry without providing any benefit.
6040
Sri Lankan star Kumar Sangakkara, making his Surrey debut, outshone Pietersen, scoring a century as the visitors piled on the runs on the first day.
6041
But too much will lower your immune system, and could also make your bones more fragile, according to Dr Raychelle Burks from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln .
6042
Norris, 51, pounced on his wife Dionne in the graveyard of St Nicholas Church in Southfleet, near Gravesend, in Kent, as she was about to lay flowers at the grave of his grandmother on October 11 last year.
6043
The freed Yazidis were taken away by ambulances and buses to receive treatment and care .
The freed Yazidis were taken away by ambulances and buses to receive treatment and care.
6044
Just look at what happened to Sue Perkins this week, who received a barrage of abuse on Twitter when her name was mentioned for the role, along the lines of: ‘Men do cars, women do cake.’
When I drive a car, I really drive it.
6045
Middlesbrough manager Aitor Karanka declared that his players deserve to be in the Premier League after a surprise victory against Norwich moved them top of the Championship.
6046
It took emergency services around five hours to pull the teen driver, who has not been identified, from the wreckage and she only suffered minor injuries (above the four-door sedan after it landed upside down)
6047
Michael Rapiejko was accused of approaching a man as he got out of his car in October 2005 and pointing a gun at him before handcuffing him and threatening to shoot him in front of his wife and four children.
6048
Davies, who was an unused substitute for their victory at Valley Parade, has found the net just once in all competitions for the club in his 38 appearances this season.
6049
Ulster have announced the signing of New Zealand international Charles Piutau.
New Zealand international Charles Piutau will join Ulster on a two-year deal from 2016 .
6050
Dr Simon Park, a senior lecturer in molecular biology at the university, said: ‘The most common types [of bacteria] found are skin bacteria but money has also been shown to harbour MRSA and food poisoning bacteria in other related studies.
6051
Sir Alex Ferguson has admitted he had to change his everyday habits as he got older to continue managing Manchester United.
6052
James McCarthy finishes past David de Gea to put Everton ahead in just the fifth minute, following a blistering counter-attack .
Hull (away) - May 24 .
6053
Arango's Tijuana side were losing 4-3 to Monterrey with just seconds left when he went up to midfielder Jesus Zavala and bit him.
6054
In his attempt to rediscover the monkeys, Mr Devreese launched a crowdfunding campaign to raise funds for the expedition on Indiegogo.
6055
Russia has key interests in . common with the United States and needs to work with it on a . common agenda, Russian president Vladimir Putin said on Saturday . in a television interview.
6056
Prosecutors, who also declined to comment, allege Alcorn encrypted her phone number on the girl's math homework, exchanged thousands of text messages with her and even talked of adopting and running away with the girl before Alcorn resigned last month.
6057
JAPAN: Italy is the market leader in 2013 with a 45 per cent share and a growth of 6 per cent.
RUSSIA: Italy is the second-biggest virgin oil supplier with a 26 per cent market share.
6058
While Pacquiao was making another appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live, Mayweather was welcoming Mariah Carey to his gym.
6059
Oscar Hernandez  shipped his namesake a rifle and two handguns in April 2013 - a month before the NFL player shot dead Odin Lloyd (pictured on screen in court) Hernandez had been a rising star in the NFL with a $41million contract when he was arrested in June of that year.
6060
Right-hander Samuels, who is 94 not out after West Indies toiled to 188 for five, said: ‘Ben Stokes was basically battling himself because he has just come into cricket while I’ve been around for a while.
6061
The Ukip leader, on ITV's Lorraine this morning, said 'millions' of refugees could arrive on boats in Europe over the next few years unless they are intercepted and turned back now .
6062
Most people have abandoned the La Ensenada locality in Puerto Varas (pictured) which has been caked in ash despite being over 18 miles away from the massive eruption at Calbuco volcano .
6063
Earlier today, thousands of worshippers braved thunder and rain to see Pope Francis lead Easter Sunday Mass in St. Peter's Square, the Vatican this morning.
6064
Twitter users react to onscreen blunder where Channel 7 allowed the name Hugh G. Rection to feature on the screen during the broadcasting of The Royal Children’s Hospital’s Good Friday Appeal .
6065
Speaking after his Easter Sunday mass, Archbishop of Brisbane Phillip Aspinall said he supported Father Paul Kelly in his calls for the Homosexual Advance Defence to be removed from Queensland common law.
6066
'I was charmed by her.
Our love life is normal.
True love: 'The first time I saw her it was love at first sight,' Joelison said.
'I was charmed by her.
6067
Australia World Cup-winner Aaron Finch must recover from a hamstring injury if he is to arrive on schedule to play for Yorkshire again this summer.
6068
Ms Bennett's profile has soared in recent months, buoyed by rising poll ratings and Green party membership in England passing 60,000 for the first time but she has been stung by poor media performances .
6069
Sessions that win matches do not happen purely by chance.
England captain Alastair Cook celebrates as he scores the runs to defeat West Indies in the second Test .
6070
Tensions between Marine Le Pen, the leader of the French National Front, and her father have escalated, as the 86-year-old founder of the far-right party defended having described Nazi gas chambers as a 'detail of history'.
6071
Neil Redfearn is considering his position as manager of Leeds United after the club suspended his assistant Steve Thompson on Thursday.
6072
Sometimes I feel so hopeless, I feel that it's not worth it.
Ms Rachdi, pictured with parents Patty and Abe, said she used food to deal with anxiety .
6073
Ms Carney, pictured, will undergo surgery to complete her gender transition before moving to live with her fiancee, identified only as Anne, in Plymouth, Devon, later this year .
6074
Yasona Laoly, Indonesia’s Justice and Human Rights Minister, called in unexpectedly at Kerobokan Prison, where the 19-year-old  is caring for  baby Stella.
6075
Other photos show two passengers wearing face masks, a male traveller working out in the aisle while one of the cutest passengers to hit the air was a bulldog that was seen in a security vest.
6076
It will be the first in-depth interview that Kyle has given since former Marine Eddie Ray Routh was found guilty of capital murder on February 24 for shooting dead Chris Kyle and his friend, Chad Littlefield.
6077
Gold bars taken from the SS Central America which sank during a hurricane in 1857 .
An artists impression of the SS Central America sinking off the Carolina coast in 1857 .
6078
As the Dale Coyne Racing team chief mechanic is hit on the leg by the back end of the vehicle he flips forwards and performs a somersault before co-workers rush over to check he's okay.
6079
Steeped in history: A technician with the propeller of the restored Supermarine Spitfire (pictured left) at the Imperial War Museum in Duxford, Cambridgeshire, and pilot Ken Wilkinson (right), who is photographed with the Spitfire that he flew during the Second World War .
6080
The SNP want to eject Trident (submarine pictured) from Scotland, but both the Conservatives and Labour have committed to retaining the base on the Clyde .
6081
His match with Maflin concludes on Saturday, the only clash to reach a finish on day one of the tournament, and Selby looked like being too strong for his London-born opponent who currently represents Norway, where he has lived for more than a decade.
6082
She added: ‘Judit Polgar, the former women’s world champion, beat Nigel Short eight classical games to three in total, with five draws.
6083
Oxlade-Chamberlain has endured bad fortune with injuries, missing the final month of last season, including the FA Cup final when Arsenal lifted their first trophy in nine years.
6084
Charlie Adam picks the ball up inside his own half during a reserve match against Accrington Stanley .
6085
The team then used a magnetic resonance imaging scanner to map activity in the brains of people reading these 120 passages before they were asked to rate each for valence and arousal.
6086
The paint has proved so popular that the trial cans up for grabs at certain cycling shops in London were snapped up in days, some of which are now on sale on eBay (pictured) for £45 ($66) at the time of writing .
6087
As the season comes to a close, the Anthem of the Seas will then move to New York Harbour which will become its permanent home and allow it to regularly sail from Cape Liberty Cruise Port to Bermuda, the Caribbean, Canada and New England.
6088
This is because they are often the same as symptoms of other less serious conditions, such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or pre-menstrual syndrome (PMS).
6089
Mohammad Ali Akhtar, pictured (left) just after the assault, was attacked by a knife-wielding robber at the Premier Stores in Flixton, Greater Manchester, and has revealed he thought he was going to die .
6090
Ora, 32, fitted a keyboard video mouse to the USB port of her computer in the Santander bank branch in Palmers Green, pictured, allowing fraudsters to remotely access the computer to transfer cash .
6091
Genero Zeefuik pulled back a late consolation for Robbie Neilson’s men but Rangers closed out the game to make it three wins in a row as McCall’s improving side leapfrogged Hibs into second place with six games remaining.
6092
Daniel Boykin, 33, plead guilty to charges of unlawful photography, aggravated burglary, wiretapping, unlawful telephone recording and two computer crimes.
6093
Goal-line technology is a hot topic of discussion as the Gazzetta and Corriere dello Sport both report that it will be brought in for the Coppa Italia Final between Juventus and Lazio.
6094
Roughly 300 fighters linked to al Qaeda's North African arm AQIM, including a splinter group formed by veteran Islamist commander Mokhtar Belmokhtar, were believed to have operating in southern Libya, a key point on smuggling and trafficking routes across the region.
6095
’ Uncanny: Niamh Geaney, a 26-year-old student from Dublin (left), found her 'twin stranger' in Karen Branigan (right), through a social media campaign she launched with friends .
6096
The unanimous court ruled that the casino did not have to pay McKee because the rules of the 'Miss Kitty' game (pictured) stated that the maximum award was $10,000 and did not allow for bonus awards .
6097
A photo of a 'drunken' young woman, lying with her legs apart on the ground, was posted on SOHO nightclub’s Facebook page on April 3  - a week after Luke Lazarus was sentenced for raping an 18-year-old at the club.
6098
Tate Britain chiefs believe the chance discovery of a 1946 export permit (pictured) will bolster their claim that Constable's painting was legitimately brought to Britain .
6099
A small mistake from Lewis Hamilton allowed Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg to gain the upper hand in second practice for the Bahrain Grand Prix.
6100
Contra Costa County Sheriff's Lt. Ken Westermann said that the attack wasn't accidental .
This was a family friend,' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.
'Great smile.
6101
But it's also the red wine ... it just kind of soothes the body.
NBA star Amar'e Stoudemire takes a selfie of himself taking a red wine bath to help with his recovery .
6102
The Ukrainian superstar will make his return to US soil for the first time in seven years when he takes on the slick Philadelphian at the iconic Madison Square Garden in New York.
6103
Here she’s wearing an Alexander McQueen leather jacket (£2,200), Balenciaga ‘Giant’ bag (£875), Current Elliott Jeans (£185) with Prada sunglasses (£185) and a Bric’s ‘Ballagio’ suitcase (£600).
6104
Her last appearance was over a year ago, in the first round of the 2014 Australian Open, where she was swept aside in straight sets by Kirtsen Flipkens and she has not played since due to a left wrist problem.
6105
The 33-year-old joined the Exiles last year, having previously played for Bath, Gloucester, Racing Metro, Grenoble and the Scarlets.
6106
Both William and Kate, whose new little prince or princess is due tomorrow, have been seen out on shopping trips this week.
Visit site .
6107
In the following year, up to April 2010, he attended 136 days at the Lords out of a maximum 142 and claimed £10,986 subsistence, £11,625 office costs and £589 mileage.
6108
To that end Willett and his friends and family will be renting two houses in Augusta for the week, while his wife Nicole will be carrying his bag in the traditional par-three contest on Wednesday.
6109
Ashley gave the club's old board a £5million loan in January which remains outstanding.
Ashley's close associate Derek Llambias sat as director as Ashley exerted his influence .
6110
But in a joint press conference, Mr Miliband, his shadow chancellor Ed Balls and Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy said the SNP's plan 'will mean a £7.6 billion hole in Scotland's finances'.
6111
It’s one year on from his dramatic winner in the Copa del Rey final but Bale, who also scored in the Champions League final and the World Club Cup last year, is likely to be in a race to get back before the Champions League semi-finals on 5-6 May should Real reach them.
6112
The striker will return to Manchester United at the end of the season but does not feature in manager Louis van Gaal's plans and will only have one year left on his contract at the Old Trafford club.
6113
Ellen first began helping transgender women in high school when a friend confided in her with gender identity issues.
'I would identify myself as dual gender.
6114
Technology that claims to transform any smartphone into a Star Trek-style tricorder is set to be unveiled in Israel.
Scroll down for video .
6115
It is not known if it was done by the same people.
It comes six months after buildings and polling stations were defaced in the run up to the Scottish Referendum.
6116
The bestselling author has revised the theatrical adaptation of her Tudor novels for a run on Broadway (pictured is Ben Miles as Thomas Cromwell and Lydia Leonard as Anne Boleyn)
6117
A sports journalist has outraged social media users after publishing 'inappropriate' and 'despicable' tweets in which he condemned the commemoration of Anzac Day, mocked the Digger's bravery and accused them of committing war crimes.
6118
Mr Meudell instead advises budding photographers to familiarise themselves with how the ocean works before getting behind a lens.
6119
In comparison Falcao's stats make for a poor reading of four goals in 20 games and 1,032 minutes with young forward Wilson's strike against QPR in January his only one to date this season in 12 matches and 331 minutes of football.
6120
An attorney, portrayed by host Taraji P. Henson, asks the boy how long the illicit relationship lasted, to which Daly replies: 'Five glorious weeks m'amm.
6121
Penna, who is best known online as MysteryGuitarMan, solved a whopping 1,296 mini Rubik's Cubes 961 times to create a short animated video.
6122
Less than a year after his wife Kim Kardashian posed nude for the magazine, the 37-year-old rapper stars on Paper's latest cover, donning a grey sweatshirt from his collection for Adidas and a necklace featuring his daughter North's nickname, Nori.
Visit site .
6123
Enjoy a colourful starter of papas arrugadas at Smile Cooking in Las Palmas .
It certainly made for a colourful starter on our visit to Smile Cooking in Las Palmas.
6124
The company gave away golden tickets to the first 100 people through the door when the store in Avlaston, Derbyshire, was officially opened at 8am this morning.
6125
The leader of Kazakhstan has apologised after winning the presidential election with 97 per cent of the vote saying it would have been 'undemocratic' for him to make his victory more modest.
6126
Luis Suarez scores his second goal, sending Paris Saint-Germain keeper Salvatore Sirigu the wrong way, to make it 3-0 to Barcelona .
6127
'From approximately December 2013 to September 2014, Khan allegedly obtained loans for vehicles that were never delivered, obtained loans for vehicles without proper title, and issued insufficient funds checks.
6128
We can be champions just at home with the matches we play at home.
When we manage to play the game we want to play, the game was fantastic.
6129
Alongside the injuries of Carrick and Blind, United duo Phil Jones and Marcos Rojo were also absent from the train ride - with the quartet all suffering injuries following United's 4-2 win over bitter rivals Manchester City on April 12.
6130
The Conservation Fund will resell the land to commercial interests under legally binding terms that require future owners to preserve the forest and follow environmentally sound principles for cutting and replanting trees.
6131
He initially ignored the officers who were pursuing him by car but when they got out he turned round and pulled a gun to PC Wilson's head.
6132
Diane Blankenship, 45, is charged with having sex with a 14-year-old boy and a 17-year-old boy .
She has been charged with unlawful sexual activity and lewd battery.
6133
Commissioned by the WBC, fans will be able to buy one of the 1,000 18ct gold Pacquiao or Mayweather commemorative rings among a whole range of other items including 1,000 18ct gold, diamond and emerald cufflinks to be made.
6134
In the four minute video Promise talks her viewers through the steps that she took to get her Maleficent look.
Here we look back at some of her other amazing looks...
6135
The newly released footage shows Pero Antić (pictured leaving a courthouse in New York) already sitting on the curb before police grab 6ft 7ins Sefolosha .
6136
Derby head coach Steve McClaren pointed an accusing finger at his own team after they let 10-man Watford battle back to grab a 2-2 draw at the iPro Stadium.
6137
'I went through hell.
Now at a much healthier weight, Emma says she still has bad days but that she now wants to act as an inspiration to others.
6138
The New York Daily News have reported Iona's stepson Costello Jr, 45, was visiting Hamptons Bay, New York, at the time, and relatives said he has never got on with the family.
6139
At its height in 1950, the NDRF consisted of 2,277 ships at eight anchorage sites: James River, Virginia; Beaumont, Texas; Suisun Bay, California; Stony Point, New York; Wilmington, North Carolina; Mobile, Alabama; Astoria, Oregon; and Olympia, Washington.
6140
Dawn is continuing to get closer to the dwarf planet Ceres (position in the solar system shown left), and on 23 April it will descend to a circular orbit 8,400 miles (13,500km) above the surface - its first science orbit.
6141
They were first spotted by residents in the affluent village of Milford, near Godalming, on Tuesday morning and have sparked speculation as to the identity of author and the reasons behind the contrite gesture.
6142
However, Cattermole was the only man told he will definitely start against Newcastle on Sunday during Friday's team meeting, and Advocaat is looking for a big response from a player who has once again missed a significant proportion of the campaign to date through injury.
6143
Italian bio-designers MHOX has unveiled project is has been working on to 3D print organic tissues to produce working body parts that can replace the eyes of people suffering from disease.
6144
Then during the season, there might be a moment when a player's form drops, and there are other players that in that moment are able to step in.
6145
Eddie Howe was at a loss as to why his Bournemouth side were not awarded a 'clear-cut' penalty in their 2-2 draw with Sheffield Wednesday.
6146
A number of studies have shown that the greater the difference between the length of the ring finger and the index finger, the more ‘male’ your brain is likely to be.
6147
’ Police spokeswoman Tanya Little said the mother deliberately locked her children in the basement at around 11pm Saturday, and they spent the next 15 hours without access to food or bathroom.
6148
If you take my picture I will sue you'
MailOnline man Simon Parry at the gates of Cau Trang bear farm in Halong Bay where 22 bears have died since November.
6149
Aden Flint celebrates with a bottle of Sky Bet champagne following Bristol City's promotion .
‘Aaron Wilbraham has bags of experience with him and has scored over 20 goals this season.
6150
Mesut Ozil is playing the best football since he joined Arsenal in the summer of 2013, after leading the Gunners to second in the Premier League table.
6151
The incapacitated young woman is surrounded by several men while seated on a beach chair during the video filmed behind Spinnaker Beach Club.
6152
5. What one word means both ‘dodge’ and ‘immerse’? 6. Rearrange the letters in the word ‘sleuth’ to make another word.
There were three horses running in a race.
6153
And their investigation revealed 60 per cent of the prawns were found to have traces of  harmful bacteria, including E.coli, which can cause violent food poisoning.
6154
Mr Prasetyo shrugged off diplomatic backlash from Australia after Prime Minister Tony Abbott slammed the executions  as 'cruel and unnecessary' and announced he would withdraw Australia's ambassador to Indonesia Paul Grigson.
6155
She began to rely on fatty foods and would easily spend over £30 a week on pizzas and kebabs, meaning she never learned to cook or prepare a proper meal.
6156
The royal arrived in Florence yesterday for a fashion conference and has spent much of the past 24 hours partying with fashion's biggest names.
6157
Police have blasted motorists who played an impromptu game of football on the M25 after becoming stuck in a major traffic jam.
6158
Nadine was told polycystic ovary syndrome would prevent her becoming pregnant again following the birth of her fourth child, Joshua, pictured .
6159
Sefolosha was wrestled over by officers and grabbed around the neck last week on the same night that Indiana Pacers player Chris Copeland and his wife were stabbed in an altercation outside the 1 OAK club in Chelsea, New York.
6160
Three more political parties have vowed to teach lifesaving skills in schools, backing The Mail on Sunday’s campaign to add first aid to the curriculum.
6161
On his first Premier League start for Liverpool he scored, and when he played 90 minutes in four consecutive games he scored in the first game, Liverpool won the next two, and drew the fourth.
6162
The mother demands receipts for each gift so she can get the full value back if she returns them, and asks that the gifts do not have her son's name on them, claiming that personalised goods attract kidnappers .
6163
Natasha Jonas, the first female boxer to represent Great Britain in an Olympic Games, has announced her retirement from the sport.
6164
A character called the Fashionista (center, in bubble wrap) said 'jaywalking is the new catwalking' as part of a snarky reminder to pedestrians to be aware of their surroundings .
6165
Freddie Gray, 27, died Sunday after he 'had his spine 80 percent severed at his neck' following his arrest by four bicycle officers for violation that's being kept 'secret' according to his lawyer.
6166
Dairy farmers have been under severe pressure in the past year as the result of a global glut in milk and a supermarket price war that drove down the price of a pint, making it cheaper than some bottled water.
6167
Jay Z unleashed a string of 'stream of consciousness' tweets on Sunday defending his premium music streaming service Tidal and saying that it is still early days for the app .
6168
For goalkeeper Craig Gordon, Saturday’s 1-1 draw - which included a quick-fire goal from Leigh Griffiths and one in immediate response Edward Ofere - served as a warning shot against complacency in the quest for a rare domestic clean sweep.
6169
Building an artificial brain is a complex process and so far, scientist have only managed to clone the part of the bee's brain which allows it to see.
6170
'I feel like people need to understand that not all officers are crooked, not all officers are racist, bad people, and not all people who get shot or Tasered or arrested by officers are innocent victims.
6171
The 'sporting event' sees the dogs released about 100 metres(330ft) away from the bear, and they have to rely on scents and traces of the animal to find it within two minutes.
6172
They worked, and lived, with lions for the 11 years they made the film, and now, John Marshall, son of director Noel Marshall who was married to Hedren, is saying of his father's decision; 'Dad was a f**king **hole to do that to his family.'
6173
London Midland has vowed to give police CCTV images of a 'disgusting' passenger suspected of defecating inside a train carriage as it travelled through the Birmingham area.
6174
'With every win, we take it away from some of the teams that have been challenging all season, but I still think it is anyone's,' said Howe.
6175
While Mr Thompson said he has always had a problem with food (he was caught raiding his neighbours' fridges when he was three) he said it was made worse by the death of his mother in 2012.
6176
Nathan Dailo, from Sydney, uploaded a video to his YouTube channel demonstrating how he gets his three-month-old son Seth to drift off in just 42 seconds.
6177
The Turin Shroud, one of Christianity's most celebrated and hotly-debated relics, went on display to the public on Sunday for the first time in five years.
6178
A handwritten notebook in which Britain's Enigma machine genius Alan Turing admits he is baffled by an equation could fetch up to $1million (£690,000).
6179
Fraser Ross, who founded the Kitson fashion brand, is caught up in a $1million legal wrangle after being accused of swearing at staff in a Los Angeles store .
6180
,’ she said.
‘It’s the right decision,’ he said.
And the Dutch boss said: ‘I’ve got a decision to make (as to whether I play him).
6181
Christian refugees have revealed how they linked arms to form a 'human chain' in a desperate bid to stop Muslim migrants throwing them into the sea after an argument about religion.
6182
A recent episode of the show even saw Jessa pushing Ben's truck down the road while wearing workout pants covered with knee-length skirts to maintain their 'standard of modesty'.
6183
Jamyra Gallmon, right, has been charged in the stabbing death of a lawyer at an upscale Washington hotel stole just $40 and the victim's Metro SmarTrip card, while Dominique Johnson, left, has been charged with conspiracy to commit armed robbery .
6184
Using their unique sound signature, researchers will now be able to detect different types of eruptions and record the gases being released far more accurately .
6185
When finished, the New Shepard vehicle includes a Crew Capsule carrying three or more astronauts atop a separate rocket-powered Propulsion Module, launched from the firm's West Texas Launch Site.
6186
'It's hard to say how much was foam and how much had water underneath, but there would have been a good 15 metres or so of that stuff,' Ms Freedman said . She titled her videos 'foam party', 'I feel like Nigel Thornberry' and 'Beach gone.
6187
Prince Harry was greeted by an enthusiastic crowd at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra, all keen to catch a glimpse of the royal .
6188
Vera Maresova, 50, confessed to killing five women and one man over a four-year period at a hospital in  Rumburk - a small town in the north of the country.
6189
When Canadian expat Lisa Webb first sent her vegetable-phobic three-year-old to school in France, she feared her daughter would starve during the day.
6190
A tow truck driver works to clear the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup  on U.S. Highway 36, Friday near Boulder, Colo.
'We're in Colorado.
6191
The Review Commission said the FBI claimed it 'found no evidence that connected the family members in the Miami Herald article to any of the 9/11 hijackers, nor was there any connection found between the family and the 9/11 plot'.
6192
The footage captured at Spring Garden station in Philadelphia on Tuesday shows the group of youngsters viciously attacking the victims just seconds before the train pulls into the station.
6193
Antonio Valente, from Dallas, Texas, learned that his Facebook photos were being used on a fake account - and ultimately scammed an Austrian woman out of $4,000 .
6194
You ask a question, and you say, "Have your views changed?" instead of editorializing and saying my views have changed.'
'So we're talking about 8 years ago.
6195
An irritated elephant decided to douse a buffalo bull with cold water when it got a little too close for comfort.
6196
Charles Collins is pictured above with Alfred McNamee, whom he rescued after he slipped from a subway platform in Philadelphia .
Hero's return:
6197
Mr Miliband will say Labour’s reduction in the rate of stamp duty to zero would benefit nine in ten first-time buyers – saving them up to £5,000 in tax.
6198
Sarah Thomas is the NFL's first full-time female referee and will be a line judge during the upcoming season .
Off the field, she's a pharmaceutical representative.
6199
She was told she would not live past December but died four months later this month after playing with her college team at Mount St Joseph University in Cincinnati to raise $1.5million for research into childhood cancer.
6200
Rather than having to lug your wellies in a separate bag this festival season, foldable wellies make packing that little bit easier .
6201
A staggering 312mm of rain fell in 24 hours in Dungog, in the Hunter region of New South Wales, where three elderly people were found dead - marking the heaviest rainfall the area has seen in 100 years.
6202
He then effortlessly and rather athletically leaps into the air and the car  zooms past safely underneath him.
6203
Louis van Gaal has identified Michael Carrick (left) and Wayne Rooney as two of his most bright players .
He basically said too many players at United aren’t very bright.
6204
She attributed her long life to treating others well and eating her own cooking.
Weaver attributed her long life to treating others well and eating her own cooking .
6205
As well as working with the beauty brand, Lucy has been busy establishing herself as a fitness guru - even launching Results With Lucy - an online work-out programme - and filming fitness videos .
6206
Reigning Man of Steel Daryl Clark will be aiming to sink his home-town club when Castleford visit struggling Warrington as part of a full First Utility Super League programme on Easter Monday.
6207
At the top of Britain’s cash pile is Ukraine-born Len Blavatnik, who has investments in music, industry and media, and is worth £13.17billion, up £3.17billion on 2014.
6208
The graph shows a clear trend toward more blue paintings toward the end of the 20th Century, with all colours increasing except for orange.
6209
'Next week I plan to meet the fascinating Whang Od - a 95 year old Kalinga tattoo artist who is the last person left alive that still practises Batuk tribal tattooing.
6210
’ In recent years the bilby has become an important part of the Australian Easter tradition however, its ties with our Indigenous community dates back much further with bilbies making their way into dream time stories.
6211
According to one popular online audit tool, only 44 per cent of Hillary Clinton's Twitter followers are real people who participate on the social media platform .
6212
Ronald Reagan (pictured with his wife, Nancu) , on the other hand, was over-chummy, so eager to talk to them that servants actually tried to dodge him in order not to get caught for hours .
6213
Barry Hawkins kept his nerve to clinch a final frame decider over Matthew Selt in the first round of the World Snooker Championship in Sheffield.
6214
'The national team's state of health is good,' centre back Gerard Pique told reporters.
'The team is in good shape,' forward Pedro told reporters.
6215
On Friday night I’ll be wearing Bath’s No 6 shirt for the second time in a Premiership game.
I find myself on the ball more, but I was disappointed by a few dropped balls.
6216
Lafayette crossed the Atlantic on the original Hermione in 1780 to tell his friend George Washington, commander of the American insurgents against British imperial rule, that France was sending a strong military force to help them.
6217
Boris Johnson was accused of ‘breath-taking cheek’ after he set out his vision of ‘moral purpose’ in business and politics.
6218
EXPERT VERDICT: 'Titanium oxide reflects UVA and UVB rays off the skin, while oxtinoxate absorbs UV rays and converts them to heat, so it doesn't damage DNA - most good suncreams should contain these.
6219
A Roman Catholic school attended by Nick Clegg’s eldest son and two of Tony Blair’s has been cleared of discriminating against the poor.
6220
Barcelona forward Pedro's decision to consider his Camp Nou future at the end of the season could see him end up at Anfield if Liverpool sell Raheem Sterling.
6221
Lindegaard tied the knot with the Swedish model last year in a romantic beach wedding in Mauritius.
But despite his failure on the pitch, he's definitely winning away from it.
6222
The researchers showed for the that peppermint plants (a stock image is shown) can take up high concentrations of nicotine from contaminated soils, as well as taking in the drug from smoke .
‘Our results suggest that the widespread occurrence of nicotine in medicinal, spice and food plants may, at least in part, be due to other nicotine sources apart from the illegal use of insecticides,’ Dr Selmar said.
6223
It sees Dr Murthy explains that the best way Elmo can help him to do his job and keeping Americans healthy, is by getting 'all his Sesame Street friends' vaccinated too.
6224
Celebrity chef Evans' cookbook, Bubba Yum Yum: The Paleo Way, was recently dropped by its publisher after the Public Health Association of Australia found that 'a baby may die' if they consumed one of its particular recipes.
6225
'Obviously the last year really it has picked up a bit and there has been a lot more speculation about me going other places.
6226
The former Big Issue salesman and busker has sold more than four million copies of A Street Cat Named Bob and churned out multiple spin offs – earning £500,000 in just three years.
6227
And now the blonde at the centre of the summer body storm has responded to the 'contradictory' drama, with a very level-headed argument citing the irony of people getting angry about body shaming, whilst body shaming her.
6228
Brady (left) was jailed for life in 1966 after torturing and killing five children with his then-girlfriend Myra Hindley (right)
His letter reads: .
6229
Real Madrid legend Zinedine Zidane has ruled out the notion of the club selling Gareth Bale to Manchester United this summer.
6230
Bruce, who has a son Burt, 36 and a daughter Cassandra, 34, with Chrystie, revealed he identified as a woman during a prime time interview with Diane Sawyer on Friday night.
6231
They will try to even the best-of-seven series in Game 2 on Tuesday night.
Game 2 is on Wednesday night.
Game 2 is Wednesday night in Atlanta.
Game 2 is Wednesday night.
6232
‘On behalf of the governing body I would like to sincerely apologise for any offence or distress caused to our parents and pupils.
6233
Tracey Cox, relationship expert, says that it is possible to forgive someone for cheating but you have to be very clear about where you see your relationship going and how you want it to be.
6234
Roman Abramovich has never spoken in public since buying Chelsea, nor is there any expectation that he will.
C4 say IMG’s production team were short-staffed at Lingfield.
6235
After driving into the right rough, hitting a fairway wood into the left rough, and sending her third through the green, Ko hit a flop shot that ticked a palm tree and stopped in the fringe, leaving a steep downhill putt that raced 15 feet past.
6236
Jessica Kemp from Eustis says teachers at Seminole County Elementary warned they would remove kindergartner Logan from class because the products, manufactured by Doterra, smell and are a distraction to youngsters around him.
6237
'Discriminatory': Tania Rahman received a letter from Salisbury City Council telling her it would not accept her offer to run a food stall at a St George's Day event because it 'only wanted English food'
6238
You have to drop them in and I have to adapt to do that round here.'
It would be sacrilege not to play here no matter how much it frustrates you,' McDowell said on Sunday .
6239
Strike threat:
Disruption:
 Tens of thousands of teachers could strike in the autumn, potentially causing temporary school closures .
6240
He also enjoyed the shopping.
For bargain shopping, Samia recommends discount outlet store Century 21 for lots of major brands .
6241
Genetic analysis of the bones (above) of ‘Altamura Man’, found entombed in limestone in a cave in Altamura, Italy, has revealed that they belong to a Neanderthal who fell into the cave 128,000 to 187,000 years ago .
6242
Peter Thurston, 80, takes his vessel, dubbed the 'catamavan', out on the River Swale in Kent regularly and enjoys the views of the countryside.
6243
Liverpool sold Suarez to Barcelona for £75million during the summer, but Carragher feels Coutinho can fill the sizable gap left by the controversial Uruguay striker.
6244
The finish might have been uncharacteristically scruffy, scored after his first shot came back off the keeper, but it was a landmark goal for Lionel Messi at the Nou Camp on Saturday as he made it 400 goals for Barcelona in a 2-0 win over Valencia.
6245
The product, called Droops, is still in the early stages, but Mr Chow says the coffee pods will cost around £4 for a pack of 20 and the machine will cost around £80.
6246
A study of 1,500 teachers found 30 per cent have suffered online abuse by parents - and that this type of bullying is on the rise accounting for 40 per cent of all reported online insults this year .
6247
The post also claimed to contain highly sensitive information, such as P.O. boxes used by the CIA as cover addresses, CNN reports, as well as what it claimed to be contact information belonging to the chief of the CIA's National Counterterrorism Center.
6248
The news came as Alison Saunders, the new Director of Public Prosecutions, has dared her critics to challenge her in court after she decided Lord Janner could not face trial because of his Alzheimer's .
6249
Lionel Messi, Neymar and Luis Suarez is a star-studded strike force that almost every team in the world would dearly love to have, but when the going gets tough, Barcelona turn to Jeremy Mathieu and Gerard Pique.
6250
The typically warm and humid Georgia weather is expected to be unsettled by a cold front heading into Augusta for the weekend, which is likely to bring more showers and thunderstorms, especially on Friday and Saturday.
6251
Scarred:
Reality stars: The owner and artists at Black Ink tattoo star in their own VH1 reality show, Black Ink Crew .
6252
A family on New York's Long Island tried to keep this snowman alive for as long as possible, but the Frosty melted this weekend when 70-degree temperatures hit the area .
6253
After a period taking the Chinese herbal tea, she is then prescribed a mixture of Chinese herbs in a pill form which must be taken 24 times a day (12 in the morning and 12 in the evening) for two weeks, costing around £150.
6254
And the final indignity sees the boarder fall to the ground while still filming himself.
The snowboarder can be heard making a scream as he holds the back of his head and falls to the floor.
6255
The ComRes poll shows Conservative voters are the most likely to think it is important to get to know the wives and children of the party leaders – 32 per cent, compared with 25 per cent of Labour voters.
6256
The first rape took place in Equinox nightclub - which has now been replaced by a casino - in London's Leicester Square (file picture - club not pictured) But Khoorban, who was based with the Royal Artillery's 16th Regiment at Woolwich barracks at the time, was not caught.
6257
A man, 21, allegedly forced a tearful 15-year-old girl into his car on Saturday and screamed, 'you will never see your parents again!' in attempt to force her to be his teen bride.
6258
Ozzie's new 3D printed leg (pictured) was designed in the shape and size of a goose leg to fit him perfectly .
6259
Breaking her silence: Bruce Jenner's second wife Linda Thompson tweeted a message of support for the Olympian ahead of his ABC prime time special with Diane Sawyer set to air on Friday night .
6260
O'Brien's other daughter, Rachel, 10, is staying with relatives.
Driving the Dodge Charger that killed the beloved teacher was 19-year-old Ramiro Pedemonte .
6261
The club have agreed once again to rake part in the International Champions Cup that they won last summer by beating Liverpool in a final in Miami.
6262
Cook has had a taste already of what is to come, first of all in three Caribbean Tests this month and then a decidedly awkward assignment at home to New Zealand, before England somehow try this summer to regain the Ashes lost 5-0 under his captaincy in 2013-14.
6263
David Cameron is trying to be Prime Minister without taking the job interview, Ed Miliband claimed today ahead of tonight's TV debates.
6264
Michael Easy, 29, from Southampton, Hampshire (pictured), sparked a major police manhunt after going on the run and taunted police by posing in Dame Edna-style glasses and a platinum wig in Facebook photos .
6265
Dr Noel Snell, Director of Research at the British Lung Foundation, said: 'A pulmonary embolism - better known as a blood clot in the lungs - causes a blockage in a pulmonary artery, the blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the lungs.
6266
VOLUMINOUS SILHOUETTES .
Big is better: Toni Maticevski (left), Ellery (middle), and Michael Lo Sordo (right) all presented voluminous silhouettes .
6267
Nathan Sellers went on the show with his ex, Lia Palmquist, and accused her of sleeping with every member of the Wu-Tang Clan during one night as she partied with them at a hotel after a show.
6268
Many Israeli male couples have traveled to capital of Kathmandu to father children with the help of surrogate mothers because in Israel the procedure is limited by law to only heterosexual partners.
6269
Officers identified as Michael Robison, 46, a 23-year-veteran, Noel Schwab, 49, a 16-year-veteran and Michael Celis, who has been on the force for 16 years, have reportedly already resigned or said they will resign.
6270
Emergency services were called to the scene where police have established a crime scene, which has been examined by the Crash Investigation Unit.
6271
Jessica Ennis-Hill has begun communication with the IAAF in the aim of being rewarded with World Championship gold from 2011 after champion Tatyana Chernova was exposed as a drug cheat.
‘I can't understand how that is fair.
6272
Dame Barbara Hakin, national director of commissioning operations for NHS England, is facing the threat of a new inquiry into claims she put patient safety at risk in a drive to meet targets .
6273
The Canberra based Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade workers were given an 'announcement' on a big TV screen that their workplace was being closed and moved to Melbourne.
6274
Suing LA for millions: Jamar Nicholson (left) and his friend Jason Huerta (right), who stand solemnly in the alleyway where Nicholson was shot, are suing the city of Los Angeles for $20 million .
6275
Who do you think WILL win the fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao?
Pacquiao takes a selfie as he tells the crowd he is excited ahead of his fight against Floyd Mayweather .
6276
There was only one clear penalty for me when Oscar was played clean through on goal and lobbed David Ospina the Arsenal keeper clearly wiped Oscar out and Oliver should have given them a penalty.
6277
Mrs Barden, 28, is mother to eight-year-old Ella and one-year-old Chloe, who both suffer from Cockayne Syndrome and have a life expectancy of just 12.
6278
Police were called to the Century Cinema (pictured) on February 18 just before the end of the erotic film after an argument broke out and Murray hit Jessica Deadman while drunkenly gesturing with her hand .
6279
Asked if he thought people doing the surveys understood they would get sales calls as a result, he said: ‘If I’m honest, and I’m always honest, generally I think some people don’t realise that they’re going to get calls.’
6280
Services by West Coast Railways have been suspended following the incident on March 7 in which a train failed to stop at a signal.
Fanfare:
6281
'Look at it, it's huge,' shouted one boy from the shore .
All fears of an attack soon disappeared as children could be heard chatting and laughing happily on the shore as the fish swam around.
6282
The description for the unsettling video claims it was captured in the Shenzhen Reservoir in China's Sand Bay after local workers found the animal swimming .
6283
The icefin was deployed (and retrieved) the vehicle through a 12-inch diameter hole through 20 meters of ice (pictured) and another 500 meters of water to the sea floor.
6284
Real Madrid's last win against Atletico Madrid came in the Champions League final less than a year ago, but in the time since that memorable night in Lisbon Carlo Ancelotti's side have failed to win any of their last seven games against their city rivals.
6285
Marion 'Suge' Knight was chained down to a chair and wheeled into a California courtroom on Wednesday after he fell at a previous hearing while addressing murder charges levied against him.
6286
Passengers of an Icelandair flight to Denver on Tuesday were left in a bit of shock after their plane was struck by lightning shortly after takeoff.
6287
Warriena Wright (pictured) fell to her death from the 14th floor of Gable Tostee's Surfers Paradise apartment in the early hours of August 8 this year, just days before the 26-year-old was due to return home to New Zealand .
6288
Yarde seized the initiative for the London club and full-back Ollie Lindsay-Hague appeared to have sealed the victory, only for Dan Robson's try with a minute left to give Gloucester a faint glimmer of hope until they aimlessly kicked the ball away in the last act of the game.
6289
Mr Renshaw said Harley's family are overjoyed to be told he is free of cancer.
 Fewer than 100 children in the UK are diagnosed each year with this form of cancer .
6290
Maria used only her brushes and professional kryolan paints to create bunny ears, bright eyes and a nose .
She posted pictures online and added the caption, 'I've got hare in my face'
6291
As darkness fell on the beach in Hokota, around 60 miles northeast of Tokyo, coastguards and officials called off the rescue operation after only managing to save three of the 149 melon-headed dolphins that had beached.
6292
Leicester face a crunch clash with fellow relegation battlers Burnley on Saturday .
Leicester manager Nigel Pearson has managed to create a positive attitude in his squad .
6293
Some combination of Ms. Culmone, Mr. Best, and Mr. Zukanovic travel to each location that Barbie visits, including London, Paris, and New York for Fashion week, California for Coachella, and Miami, Florida for Art Basel.
6294
Muhammad Ali suffered a shock defeat to Leon Spinks who had only fought seven times previously .
You want to be glorified for that?
6295
Defender Per Mertesacker believes Arsenal have become a stronger unit from their FA Cup success of last season, but cannot allow themselves any sense of complacency against Reading at Wembley in Saturday's FA Cup semi-final.
6296
Kane, the only English player up for the main award, has scored 19 in the Premier League, the same number as Diego Costa, who is also on the shortlist, along with Alexis Sanchez, Philippe Coutinho and David de Gea.
6297
NSW SES have received more than 6500 requests for help since the storms began on Monday, with flash flooding, trees down and power outages across the Sydney, Newcastle and Hunter regions .
6298
They were shocked to find a large, Australian kangaroo 'happily' hopping through a field in the town of Bruhl, 20 kilometres south of the city centre of Cologne.
6299
Half a million first time buyers will be helped onto the housing ladder every year by 2020, George Osborne pledged today.
6300
But instead of being offended, Ms Sturgeon is 'tickled' by the image, so much so it is believed to grace the wall of her suburban Glasgow home after she was given it as a birthday gift by her husband, Peter Murrell.
6301
An assistant school principal in Texas has received a lenient sentence after admitting to sneaking off with an 18-year-old student during a prom event in 2012 and having sex with the girl in his office.
6302
Stephanie Hannon, director of product management, civic innovation and social impact at Google, has come aboard the Hillary Express as Mrs. Clinton's technology guru .
6303
Authorities say 38-year-old Uriel Miranda died at the scene and his 2-year-old daughter Yaretsi Miranda died Saturday evening at a hospital.
6304
The withdrawals, including Souleymane Doukara's, are the latest incident in another turbulent period at Leeds .
6305
All guns blazing: 'Twenty-five years ago, a team of scientists from Cornell University and MIT discovered that each blast from the bombardier beetle is actually a series of extraordinarily fast micro-pulses,' Assistant Professor Moore said, which led to the machine gun analogy.
6306
Mourners pray during the funeral Mass for Cardinal Francis George at Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago on Thursday, April 23, 2015.
Overseeing:
6307
And he said public sector workers had left because their pensions were hit and some faced job cuts.
Cuts:
Its everyone's fault but his own'
6308
United are looking to bring in some talented younger players to boost squad numbers ahead of next season's UEFA U19 Youth League competition.
6309
Caught on camera: Casey Levi filmed the moment he tried to get his son Sam to eat a California roll with a $10 prize up for grabs.
6310
The second oldest outfield player in the Premier League — 26 days younger than Everton’s Sylvain Distin — Duff is the only man to appear in all eight top tiers of English football.
6311
During a confrontation near a park in Oldham, Greater Manchester, Bako put his arm around the back of the girl's neck and with the other clenched his fist and repeatedly punched the victim in the stomach.
6312
Jack Nicklaus recorded his first ever hole-in-one at the Masters on Wednesday, as Camilo Villegas fired two in the space of five holes but still could not win the traditional par-three contest.
6313
Iniesta scores in injury time at Stamford Bridge to help Barcelona to a 1-1 draw at Chelsea in the 2009 Champions League semi-finals second leg .
6314
Anything Prince George has been seen wearing has gone on to sell out, such as this £32 Cath Kidston  tank top... and one clothing company that the tot is reported to have been wearing has released a new range in time for the second royal baby's arrival .
6315
Repeating the view that Denayer should stay at Celtic to play European football rather than risk a return to the Manchester City reserves, Deila insisted: ‘I think it’s important for him to play, that’s why we sent Liam Henderson to Rosenborg because he needs playing time.
6316
Toni Elliot, 53, (right) found her meal had extra crunch this week when she found 50 pearls inside the baked oyster she was feasting on at Puckett's Boat House in Franklin, Tennessee .
6317
Gloucester winger Jonny May is hoping to get over being dropped by England with victory in next month’s Challenge Cup final.
6318
The illegal animal traders had kept the terrified three-year-old chimpanzee in the box for two weeks . 'And hundreds of thousands in the all sub-Saharan Africa.
6319
The kitchen also features a walk-in refrigerator.
He is also chairman of the global fashion house BCBG Max Azria group, which includes more than 20 brands .
6320
Arsene Wenger's Gunners now have 15 wins from 17 games since New Year's Day, but it's come too late .
15 wins in 17 games since their loss New Year’s Day.
6321
Blackburn Rovers boss Gary Bowyer has challenged star striker Jordan Rhodes to become an FA Cup hero as the Championship underdogs face Liverpool in the first full house at Ewood Park since 2011.
6322
Sevilla coach Unai Emery has guided the club to fifth in the La Liga table ahead of the visit of Barcelona .
6323
A Football League statement read: 'The Football League has charged Rotherham United with fielding an ineligible player (Farrend Rawson) in the club's Sky Bet Championship match with Brighton & Hove Albion on Monday, April 6 which the Millers won 1-0.
6324
A win over Jennings will place Klitschko within one successful defense of Holmes but he would still need six additional wins to match Louis' record of 25.
6325
Police stopped the man in a blue Hyundai Getz car on the Bermagui to Tathra Road in the Bega Valley - the same car that Ms D'Addario was reported to have been driving when she went missing with Mr Vosikata on Monday.
6326
It is not clear what caused him to drive in front of the train .
According to local news reports, the 50-year-old driver of the car was trapped for about 15 minutes as firefighters fought to dismantle the wreckage.
6327
At the conclusion of an open training session for fans at White Hart Lane on Thursday morning Kane lined up against Etienne Capoue, Nabil Bentaleb, Eric Dier, Roberto Soldado, Danny Rose and the apparent king of the crossbar, Christian Eriksen.
6328
The NHS handed out 404,500 prescriptions for suncream at a cost of £13million in 2014 and 4.7million prescriptions for indigestion pills costing£29million, damning analysis has found (file image)
6329
The mother, from Berlin, previously made headlines in Germany after giving birth to her youngest daughter Leila a decade ago, aged 55.
6330
Miss Geaney, a 26-year-old student from Dublin (left), found her 'twin stranger' in Miss Branigan (right), through a social media campaign she launched with friends .
6331
In a case which has strikingly similar traits to the £60m heist in London, thieves targeted 294 security vaults during a break-in at the Volksbank in Steglitz, Berlin, in January 2013 .
6332
And Janmaat who came off the bench in Holland's semi-final penalty shootout loss to Argentina in Brazil, reckons the significance of Newcastle's match at the weekend could rival that.
6333
The 19-month-old was left dangling mid air by her neck and was only saved because her mother had been watching her on the baby monitor .
6334
As the weather begins to drop to cooler temperatures in Queensland, Mr Gilbert said brown tree snakes are nocturnal so they try to hide in warm areas.
6335
The 11-year solar cycle sees a periodic change in the sun’s activity - such as the number of ejections - in addition to changes in the number of sunspots, flares and other visible differences.
6336
The Prime Minister, who insists he has been an Aston Villa fan 'all his life', was giving a campaign speech in south London when he joked that everyone should back his team – but then named West Ham instead of the West Midlands giants.
6337
The instinct could date back to early human evolution in Africa, where spiders with very strong venom existed millions of years ago.
6338
Two young children have died after a minivan they were playing in on the parking lot of the Arcadia Palms apartment complex in Las Vegas caught fire and exploded (police scene pictured)
6339
Gregory van der Wiel has denied claims that he is set to leave Paris Saint-Germain in the summer and instead reiterated his 'love' for the club.
6340
An unidentified male concert-goer has come under fire for his offensive choice of festival fashion after he was photographed at  Coachella wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the words 'Eat Sleep Rape Repeat'.
6341
Cristiano Ronaldo missed a penalty but provided goals for Sergio Ramos and James Rodriguez, before adding the third himself, as Madrid kept within touching distance of league leaders Barcelona.
6342
Carlos Lalin, Chelsea assistant first team fitness coach and gym manager said 'Technogym has a reputation for excellence in the design and manufacture of fitness equipment for elite athletes.
6343
They will have an ideal opportunity to do just that when they host La Liga's 19th-placed side at the Bernabeu in an 11am kick-off, with Luis Enrique's men travelling to Celta Vigo later that day.
6344
Cazorla, who played with Musacchio during his time at Villarreal, tweeted: 'A lot of best wishes to my friend Mateo, I hope it's not too serious.
6345
Linda Hogan purchased the 23.63-acre property for $3.5 million a year after she divorced the WWE Hall of Famer in 2009.
The mansion's courtyard.
6346
Who is the better player right now: Wayne Rooney or Sergio Aguero?
Wayne Rooney (left) and Sergio Aguero are two of the best forwards in the current Premier League .
6347
Clare Else's husband Andrew was knifed more than 200 times by paranoid schizophrenic Ephraim Norman, 24, after getting off a bus close to his home in Croydon, south London, in April last year.
6348
Juanette Cullum, 48, was arrested after a witness allegedly saw her stealing property and informed American Airline officials, a Port Authority of New York and New Jersey spokesman said.
6349
They include: 'Tall men marry earlier but short men stay married longer,' and, 'More home pregnancy kits are sold in March than any other month.
6350
On Sunday, Sarkozy's party made massive electoral gains against the Socialists in regional elections and he is convinced he can become president again in 2017 .
6351
“To this day, I don’t know what happened in the Gold Cup - he didn’t run his race.
Many Clouds (far right) leaps over the water jump during the Grand National at Aintree on Saturday afternoon .
6352
Kevin Pietersen has thrown his support behind former team-mate Michael Vaughan as the right man to 'change the brand of cricket currently being played' in England.
6353
Mrs Wilson only realised she had a son when someone showed her a picture of Felix wearing a baby grow that her other children had worn when they were born, and it 'clicked' that he was her son .
6354
No tourists have played in Pakistan because of security fears since the terrorist attack on Sri Lanka's team bus in Lahore in March 2009 - when six policemen and two civilians died, and several of the tourists were injured.
6355
, Comey wrote: 'In their minds, the murderers and accomplices of Germany, and Poland, and Hungary, and so many, many other places didn't do something evil' (above the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in D.C.)
6356
Referee Mark Clattenburg has been named to take charge of the Manchester derby on Sunday, despite having sent off three players from United and City this season.
6357
Harley Hicks has been sentenced to life in prison with 32 years non parole for the brutal murder of baby Zayden Veal-Whitting (pictured) Hicks left the home with nothing more than a wallet and a pair of sunglasses during his ice-fuelled attack .
6358
Chelsea are set to follow Tottenham’s lead and take part in a post-season friendly Down Under in June.
No problems, for sure.
That's for sure.'
6359
The fatally-wounded man can be heard saying: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
He shot me, man' before adding: 'Oh, my god.
says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
6360
Having just written a book 'Period Repair Manual: Natural Treatment for Better Hormones and Better Periods,' Dr Briden, a naturopathic doctor with nearly 20 years experience in women's health, is not adverse to discussion and believes it's  time to put it out there.
6361
Spanish artist Catalina Viejo, 31, who is based in New York, paints miniature pictures from candid paparazzi shots rather than using glossy magazine images, and has worked her magic on stars including Kim Kardashian, Katy Perry, Miley Cyrus, Rihanna and Beyoncé.
6362
The Exiles were ahead at half-time thanks to Tom Court's try, but Bath were in imperious form in the second period and coasted to victory - Blair Cowan scored a late consolation for the visitors.
6363
Meanwhile in the co-main even, Al Iaquinta took a split decision win over Jorge Masvidal in an epic encounter, which saw Iaquinta considerably bloodied and Masvidal sporting a heavily welted lead leg after the 15-minute war.
6364
Emilia Clarke, left, who plays Daenerys Targaryen believes Game of Thrones has great female characters .
People are going to think, "You go through a change every year!"
6365
Angry Inter Milan coach Roberto Mancini cancelled his players' day off and ordered them in for an early morning training session on Sunday after they were held to a 1-1 home draw by bottom-of-the-table Parma.
6366
If they asked me to take on a role, and it’s the right role, of course I’d listen and have a big conversation – once the ECB have asked Surrey permission to speak to me, of course, because I’m under contract here.
6367
Terror:
The young swimmer managed to avoid coming into contact with the sea cow, which came in to view a number of times during the short clip.
6368
Her siblings - one-year-old brother Bol and four-year-old twins Madit and Anger - died after their mother Akon Guode crashed her 4WD into a lake at Wyndham Vale in Melbourne's outer west on Wednesday.
6369
In it, a small boy named Harry Davies-Carr is seen happily sitting with his baby brother Charlie on his lap - until Charlie painfully makes a snap for one of his older sibling's digits.
6370
Elizabeth Sedway, 51, from Granite Hill, California, posted an emotional video on her Facebook page Monday showing her family being kicked off a packed plane.
6371
'To be told you are facing aggressive cancer in your 30s is devastating and of course, I feared the worst and began making plans for my child, and getting my finances in order.'
6372
Paul Casey, practicing ahead of the Masters in Augusta, 'desperately' wants to return to the Ryder Cup .
'I desperately want to be part of a Ryder Cup again.
6373
Hughes faces up to four years in prison on charges of unlawfully operating an unregistered aircraft and violating national defense airspace.
6374
Another PFA Young Player of the Year award winner (1995), he had entered the record books by scoring the fastest hat-trick in the Barclays Premier League on his way to 50 goals by his 20th birthday and won his first major honour (the 1995 League Cup).
6375
Basford, 31, told The Times: 'Colouring in appeals to people because it’s a chance to do an analogue activity that’s not on a screen.
6376
Crystal Palace manager Alan Pardew insists he is not interested in raiding former club Newcastle for Tim Krul and is disappointed that reports emerged suggesting he was planning a move.
6377
UFC women's champion Ronda Rousey reinforced her support for Manny Pacquiao in his May 2 megafight with Floyd Mayweather as she paid a visit to the Filipino's Los Angeles training camp.
6378
The relationship between the toddler and Whittington has not yet been officially confirmed by police but the owner of Vest Market Harry Dindral said the man was the boy's father and said that he's seen them in the store together before.
6379
Facing huge fine: Google is facing a fine of up to £4billion as Europe prepares to file a high-profile anti-competition lawsuit against the internet giant .
6380
Burgess was called into England's RBS 6 Nations squad to step-up his education in the new code, although he was never considered for selection by the Red Rose who regard him as an inside centre.
6381
'I never felt like I did a day's work in my life, I've felt a lot of satisfaction and fulfilment and I'm very proud of what I've been lucky enough to achieve but so many people have helped that happen, I was just the lucky one who got on the best horse most of the time.
6382
Taken somewhere in the forests of north-eastern Nigeria, the images show the jihadis casually posing in front of the terror group's sinister black and white flag while brandishing assault rifles.
6383
Ms French (pictured left, during her pregnancy) only found out she had buried her daughter with some of her vital organs missing when she received a letter from police in 2012 to inform they were holding her body parts .
6384
Joining Mrs Tyler was another familiar face - that of self-confessed royal 'superfan' John Loughery, 60, who camped out overnight ahead of the 2011 Royal Wedding and was the only member of the public to attend every day of the inquest into the death of Princess Diana in 2008.
6385
Managers: Louis van Gaal (Manchester United), Manuel Pellegrini (Manchester City) Head-to-head league record: Manchester United wins 59, draws 49, Manchester City wins 43 .
6386
Hayes routinely attended meetings, was copied on emails among senior staff and requested information or clerical assistance from state employees.
6387
With just days to go until Easter, John Lewis has halved the price of many of its decorations and trees - knocking as much as £250 off the 9ft John Lewis Pre-Lit Peardrop with 500 lights, formerly £500.
6388
Andy Murray and his Davis Cup colleagues have got their preferred venue by securing London’s Queen’s Club as the place where they will take on France in their quarter final.
6389
The decision means that Parma, who despite being last in Serie A beat leaders Juventus 1-0 on Saturday, have been left with 12 points from 30 games.
6390
Kevin Franklin married his new wife in the Italian Alps while his 80-year-old victim was forced to borrow money from his children because he could not afford any milk, a court heard.
6391
Alan Rogers, 73, smashed the skull of 76-year-old grandfather Fred Hatch in the communal garden of their sheltered housing complex near Cardiff.
6392
15-year-old Shamima Begum (pictured) - one of three British teenagers who is now believed to be inside Syria - contacted Aqsa Mahmood who is considered to be one of the leaders of brutal all-woman militant group al-Khansa .
6393
Canberra surprisingly performed second best to Sydney over the quarter with a 4.1 per cent increase in dwelling values leading to a $530,000 median house price, followed by Melbourne at 3.5 per cent and $518,000.
6394
‘You don’t know 100 per cent until he’s put out in the environment.
Trott looks for a single during a training session at Warner Park, Basseterre, St Kitts & Nevis .
6395
The grandmother tried to go through the courts to see if the city's rent regulation laws could help, but it was determined that her apartment wasn't covered (Adele pictured above in her Little Italy apartment)
6396
Krul smiles at Defoe shortly after the striker's goal gave the Black Cats the lead in the Wear-Tyne derby .
That’s rubbish.
But that’s rubbish, too.
6397
His simple gold studs were switched out for diamonds, his hair grew down to his shoulders, and, in 2014, he began going out in public with colorful, perfectly-pampered manicures.
6398
Mel Stein, chairman of the London-based Association of Football Agents, told the Guardian: 'I think it's going to create anarchy and everybody is going to be sorry about it.
6399
Goldman Sachs, Mr Pappas, Mr Morris and Mr Mix all deny the allegations against them .
Goldman Sachs, Mr Pappas, Mr Morris and Mr Mix deny the allegations.
6400
Hampshire chairman Rod Bransgrove’s biggest ambition in cricket is to see an Ashes Test match at his beloved Ageas Bowl ground, which he was mainly responsible for building and funding.
6401
The depth of field in a single microscope image is too small to see the whole of the butterfly in one image, so Mr Gledhill takes up to 200 separate images spaced by one micron intervals to capture the creatures, before carefully combining the shots.
6402
Labour was forced to welcome the latest employment figures, but Ed Miliband insisted that ‘too often jobs in our country are low-paid, low-skilled and insecure’.
6403
Hughes
Hughes missed his club’s Champions Cup defeat to holders Toulon last Sunday, as he awaited his appeal hearing.
6404
‘[London] feels like home, I miss it every time I have to leave for work and can’t wait to get back,’ Lindsay told Homme Style Magazine while posing for a stunning and seductive shoot for the publication. ‘I go back to NYC and LA for family and work.’
Visit site .
'Lace is always the best, and I feel beautiful in a night slip,' she said .
'Lace is always the best, and I feel beautiful in a night slip.
6405
The video taken in the forecourt of the Sunoco gas station on North 5th Street in Philadelphia shows five people, including two children, storming out of a minivan and attacking the helpless 51-year-old.
6406
Mr Silver said Labour, who have ruled out a formal coalition with the SNP, would also be short of a majority even with the help of the Scottish Nationalists, whom he expects to gain 42 seats .
6407
Huddersfield forward Jacob Fairbank is set for a lengthy spell on the sidelines after fracturing his ankle and suffering ligament damage while on loan at Halifax.
6408
'The most difficult part is Hayley has the mind of a normal 13-year-old girl locked in an old person's body,' she said.
 'In many ways I feel I've been lucky.
6409
The 55-year-old spoke to Woman magazine about how attending Zumba classes up to four times a week had helped her drop two dress sizes .
6410
Toutouni, who goes by the name @lunatic-living on the site, said: 'What man in this world can't say this isn't the lifestyle they want to live?
6411
Five opposition party leaders went head-to-head in the 90-minute BBC debate last night: Labour's Ed Miliband, SNP's Nicola Sturgeon, Ukip's Nigel Farage, Green's Natalie Bennett and Plaid Cymru's Leanne Wood.
6412
Manchester City defender Aleksandar Kolarov (right) challenges Lionel Messi at the Nou Camp last month .
6413
Star striker Jackson Martinez and Ricardo Quaresma were one of many Porto players who looked perplexed as they were hugged by fans before they making their way on to the team bus - set upon a cacophony of fiercely-proud chanting.
6414
He may even cover for Modric again with the midfielder not back for another five weeks; he will play as an auxiliary striker if Real Madrid need a late goal, and he’ll go in goal if the emergency presents itself.
6415
In the end Barcelona coach Luis Enrique insisted on the signing of Mathieu – another who can also fill-in at full-back - and Stones signed a new £30,000-a-week five-year deal keeping him at Everton until 2019.
6416
Hillary and Bill Clinton stayed in the eastern Domonican Republic resort town of Punta Cana before shifting the vacation to Casa de Campo days later .
6417
The map above shows the countries in Europe with the highest and second highest number of searches per capita for different sexually transmitted diseases.
6418
During the investiture ceremony, held at Windsor Castle, the Queen presented the Duke with the insignia of a Knight of the Order of Australia.
6419
'I don't know if I will leave.
'But it's not right to speak about it now and, as I said, the Bianconeri fans will be the first to know what I decide.'
6420
Mr Lunev, reportedly from Donetsk, Ukraine, received first aid at the scene by medics and his visibly shaken colleagues, before he was taken to a hospital near the Russian border .
6421
Amanjena Resort Amanjena (peaceful paradise) is the first Aman resort on the African continent and is located just outside the ancient city of Marrakech .
6422
Terrorist group ISIS has released photographs of its militants destroying Christian graves with sledgehammers and carving out crosses in the Iraqi city of Mosul.
6423
Thomas Muller became the leading German scorer in the Champions League on Tuesday night and engaged in a raucous exchange with Bayern Munich supporters as Pep Guardiola's side celebrated a famous win.
6424
Fran Kirby staked an impressive claim for a World Cup starting role with England Women as she created the first goal and scored a brilliant second in a 2-1 win over China.
6425
'To turn YouTube into your perfect music service, we're launching YouTube Music Key as a beta with our biggest music fans first, and then we'll bring YouTube Music Key to the whole world together.'
6426
In an inspiring essay for Marie Claire, Jenna Marotta, 27, tells of her experience with dermatillomania - a compulsive skin-picking disorder that left her face bleeding - and how she managed to overcome it.
6427
The collection is inspired by the ocean, with coral reef scenes featuring throughout.
The swimsuits feature coral reef inspired designs, reflecting model's Australian background .
6428
Rodgers said: 'The players and myself are very motivated to do the best we can.
Rodgers said: 'It was a good performance.
'After that we grew into the game.
6429
Owner Roy Stevenson told her to stay away after he accused her of knocking over his son Daniel in her car - but says she can return but needs to say sorry first .
6430
Pride: Danielle and Adam Busby with one of their five new little girls at Houston's Woman's Hospital of Texas after Danielle delivered her quintuplets by C-section on April 7 .
6431
’ She said by eating food she normally would, and replacing pasta, rice, potatoes and processed food with spiralized vegetables, she didn’t have to sacrifice her taste buds in the name of health.
6432
Mr Moon, pictured with wife Janice, had paid $4,655 to be buried in a family plot in Chehalis, Washington, according to a lawsuit filed in Lewis County Superior Court .
6433
Organiser Zhang Zhongsham, CEO of pet social media app Smack Talk, said the event was designed not only to give pets and their owners a day to remember, but also to raise awareness of animal rights.
6434
Police had allegedly issued a warrant for her arrest after she failed to appear in court on seven charges of supplying or trafficking drugs, one charge of unlawful wounding and three charges of bestiality.
6435
Police were awaiting the results of an autopsy to determine the exact cause of death, but they said there was no evidence to suggest foul play in the death of Miss Curlen, pictured left with her boyfriend .
6436
She's better known as the eccentric grandmother from hit comedy Absolutely Fabulous - but 89-year-old June Whitfield has donned a habit for her latest role as Sister Ruth, a nun, in BBC soap EastEnders .
6437
There will be a white-hot atmosphere at White Hart Lane on Saturday afternoon when Aston Villa come to town but Tim Sherwood has got to keep his emotions in check.
6438
'The assumption is that they will never be dishonest but they will respect your willingness to participate and not look to include things you think would embarrass your family.'
6439
Second-placed Preston's quest to join Bristol City in the Championship was dented after they were held to a 2-2 draw against Gillingham, who grabbed an equaliser in stoppage time through Leon Legge.
6440
The group had been on a night out in Marbella after jetting to Spain on Saturday, before returning to the rented villa in Nueva Andalucia to carry on partying around the pool.
6441
King Charles Spaniel Alfie, who suffered three degree burns after vets place a heat pad on his back that had been warmed in a microwave
6442
Neville predicts changes at Manchester City and says the club need to get rid of 'weeds in the garden' 'If I was a player in that dressing room looking at him in central midfield thinking you're not chasing back, you're not running around, you're not sprinting for the ball.
6443
'Jaclyn and I are getting close, and I am starting to feel great about this whole experiment,' Ryan told the cameras, while Jaclyn noted that the pair 'can be really happy' in their new apartment.
6444
While some women opt for a single loop around their chest and arms, others tie the ribbon once under their breasts and then around once again to rest on the upper arms to give cleavage a bigger boost when lifting their arms.
6445
Venus is known to have an Earth-like band in its atmosphere about 30 miles (50km) above the surface, where some have said it could be possible to place floating space colonies (shown)
6446
Bettman and his crew began building the dining room on the snow-covered ground at 4am, using furniture they had found on Craigslist, friends' apartments and right off the sidewalk.
6447
The Lincolnshire resort, famous for its giant Butlin's holiday camp and sprawling caravan parks, joins picturesque places such as St Ives and Windermere in the top ten league of towns for holiday property.
6448
The 58-year-old chocolatier commissioned an iron worker to make a special frame for his egg, which was then wrapped in grease proof paper and cling film, before being covered in chocolate.
6449
Footage shows the seven-day-old foal nuzzling Sunny Bayne's shoulder before pushing her to the ground and lying on top of her belly.
Pony love:
6450
The mummy, thought to date back to 1100 AD, was found wrapped in rope and dumped inside the box in front of an archaeological dig in the city of Trujillo.
6451
Old-stager Jamie Peacock scored a try double as Leeds claimed a  20th successive victory over Salford.
6452
Destroyed: It is unclear how many people were killed in the tower in the quake-hit city, but it was believed to have been filled with tourists .
6453
Goodall was given a nine-month suspended sentence after admitting to stealing from the Premier Inn in Newcaste (pictured) and ordered to pay back just £1 as she has no assets .
6454
The spokesman declined to identify the incidents which sparked the ban or say what will happen to passengers caught trying to sneak alcohol on board.
6455
The Deputy Prime Minister said David Cameron was 'a classic traditional shire Tory', adding: 'I can live with that.'
6456
Buchanon (pictured with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers)  moved out of his house at 17 because he no longer 'felt secure' at  home because his mother let people 'come in and out of the house and take what they wanted'
6457
The university's student union has now introduced a requirement that candidates sign a statutory declaration confirming they identify as female .
6458
The fee to find a bride this way, according to this user, costs between $10,000 (£6,500) and $15,000 (£9,800), although others have said they paid as much as $50,000 (£32,700).
6459
A GoFundMe page has since been set up to raise £20,000 to get Miss Amos-Larkin, who is also captain of the Angels cheerleading squad at Surrey University, home.
6460
The federal government will be investing $4.1 million on a TV drama which is set to broadcast overseas as a way of deterring asylum seekers from entering Australian shores by boat.
6461
Fighting back: Alison Saunders, the Director of Public Prosecutions, said she was 'not afraid' of a legal challenge over her decision not to charge Lord Janner and said she would not quit .
6462
The 42-year-old man allegedly threw a wheel spanner at a night security patrol car before recklessly driving his dark blue Ford Falcon ute at full speed towards the Harts Range police station just before 10pm on Sunday.
6463
The state said the murder plot started after Driver, an officer at the Department of Corrections Reception and Medical Center in Gainesville, rural north Florida, had a fight with the inmate.
6464
Touchingly, the women become quite emotional as they children move tentatively along the group one by one, taking the women's hands, touching their hair and faces.
6465
Jamie Oliver's company, an enduring advocate for promoting healthy eating, has warned that young stars such as Zoella, 25, and fellow vlogger and boyfriend Alfie Deyes, 21, should be more aware of the adverts that appear alongside their posts.
6466
Wicked Camper's CEO John Webb apologised for the offense the vans had caused many members of the community, and invited 'anybody who feels strongly offended by a slogan to either paint or tape over it'.
6467
Meanwhile, in August, utility workers had discovered that the gas line to the restaurant had been illegally tapped, according to Consolidated Edison.
6468
Dodd took a photograph of the two men during a match against Blackburn Rovers last month, with the caption: 'Muslims praying at half time at the match yesterday #DISGRACE.'
6469
The 28-year-old is currently training for his upcoming fight against Chris Algieri on May 29 at the Barclays Center in New York.
‘I want this fight.
6470
This is the hilarious note which was left in a chip shop window was circulated on Twitter this week, in it the owner of the chip shop laments the fact that he was going youth hosteling .
6471
The body was discovered at 5pm in the evening, just a day before the 26-year-old teacher was due to marry her partner of five years Aaron Leeson-Woolley.
6472
Stuart Pearce believes Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini deserves more time to turnaround the club’s dwindling fortunes.
6473
The players considered for this month's award have been revealed in Monday's League Weekly: Paul Aiton (Leeds Rhinos), Danny Brough (Huddersfield Giants), Rangi Chase (Salford Red Devils), Albert Kelly (Hull Kingston Rovers) and Matt Russell (Warrington Wolves).
6474
'My dad is team Pacquiao all the way,' she told TMZ on Tuesday.
Muhammad Ali wants Manny Pacquiao (right) to beat Mayweather when they clash on May 2 in Las Vegas .
6475
Iran, a Shiite nation, is backing the rebel group.
Relations between the two countries, Shiite Iran and Sunni Saudi Arabia, are hostile at the best of times .
6476
The World Health Organisation estimated more than 10,000 people have died from the deadly virus in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
6477
Corinthian Colleges, which was one of the country's largest for-profit educational institutions and ran brands such as Everest and Heald, will close its  schools after being fined $30million for misrepresenting job data .
6478
Stunning: Magnificent carpets of wild bluebells have sprung up this week, adding beautiful splashes of colour to balmy spring weather .
Blossom:
6479
When High There! first launched two months ago, it could only be downloaded by users in the US who live in states that have legalised cannabis (a joint is pictured) but a global version was rolled out yesterday .
6480
Members can withdraw at any time and after withdrawing, Genes For Good keeps the survey responses but deletes the participant's name and unique Facebook ID from its database.
6481
Stephen Howells, 39, and his 25-year-old girlfriend Nicole Vaisey, from Hermon, New York, were charged last summer with sexually exploiting the Amish girls and other children.
6482
Joseph O'Riordan, 74, stabbed his wife Amanda, 47, (pictured together above) nine times with a kitchen knife at the home they shared in Polegate, East Sussex, after discovering her affair with postman Nick Gunn .
6483
PFA Premier League Team of the Year .
The Tottenham striker was named in the PFA Premier League Team of the Year on Sunday .
It made it even more special.
6484
Ashley Young (right) wants to avoid a fifth successive derby defeat by neighbours Manchester City .
United have lost the last four derbies to City: .
6485
And even Sky Sports pundits Jamie Redknapp and Thierry Henry are getting involved as they went face-to-face in the studio.
6486
Ingredients: chicken breast fillet with rib meat, water, seasoning (rice starch, salt, sugar, yeast extract, canola oil, onion powder, maltodextrin, chicken skin, paprika, flavor, sunflower oil, chicken, garlic powder, chicken fat, spices), sodium phosphates .
6487
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love injured his left shoulder during the first half in game four of the first round of the NBA Playoffs against the Boston Celtics on Sunday .
6488
Thomas has three kids, aged six to 11, who he said that his kids think the sign is 'cute'.
'When the kids are in school, that's my free time,' he told KAIT8.
6489
Sellers are now wildly over-valuing their houses by around £74,000 – forcing buyers to barter them down, analysis shows.
There is no longer the same demand.’
6490
PFA Scotland chief executive Fraser Wishart had warned before the verdict that the SFA was veering into dangerous territory .
6491
In the film, Nawaz – a convicted former extremist – can be seen repeatedly trying to make contact with the girl as she dances naked for him in a private room during two £20 lap dances.
6492
One user wrote: 'For my job, we post eight to ten Instagram pictures a week that are first designed on the computer.
This app takes care of that.'
6493
Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister had tweeted the footage of Mr Salmond with the message: 'This footage will shock you: Alex Salmond laughs & boasts he'll write Labour's budget.
6494
In the four years that he was playing for Miami Heat, the Cavs won 19, 21, 24 and 33 games; they have already won 51 games this season, and secured the Central Division title and No 2 seed in the Eastern Conference by defeating Milwaukee.
6495
Japanese airline All Nippon Airways is set to unveil its latest livery in honour of the Star Wars films and in particular one of its much loved characters.
6496
Natal's Dunas Arena is being sold by owner Grupo OAS, with the company also trying to sell the 50 percent share it owns of the Fonte Nova arena in Salvador.
6497
He said: 'It would evaporate out of the game within two, three or four weeks because managers who have some amazing players will say, 'We can't be losing you for three games'.
6498
Health Minister Jillian Skinner has slammed celebrity chef Pete Evans for promoting fluoride-free water, saying he is putting people's health at risk with his extreme views on diet and lifestyle.
6499
Ben isn't the biggest lamb ever born in this country but Jean Morris from the farm said Big Ben was comfortably the biggest they have ever delivered.
6500
Managers: Arsene Wenger (Arsenal), Brendan Rodgers (Liverpool) Head-to-head league record: Arsenal wins 63, draws 48, Liverpool wins 70 .
6501
But his antics all went horribly wrong after he decided to electrocute a metal bracelet while he was still holding it, sending the current through his hand and into his body.
6502
With a summer return to Dublin approaching, Sexton said: ‘I was speaking to Ronan (O’Gara – former Ireland team-mate and Racing’s kicking coach) last week and saying, for me, for my two years here to be a success, we need to pick up a trophy.
6503
The spacious five bedroom home, based in the same building where 1950s pin-up and Hollywood icon Ava Gardner spent her final years, offers 3,054 sq. ft. of high-end accommodation with two reception rooms, five bathrooms, a study and kitchen/breakfast room.
6504
Thanks to a breath test, researchers claim there were able to detect the early stages of stomach cancer and also to distinguish between patients at high and low risk of developing the disease (stock image)
6505
Chilean pickpockets have become the most effective thieves operating in central London, according to undercover police teams.
They are so hard to trace.'
6506
Rather than building its own network, Google is leasing space on cellular towers built by Sprint and T-Mobile, which are hoping the deals will boost their profits without costing them too many customers tempted to defect to Project Fi.
6507
Chris Roberts, who featured in a string of Fox News reports, was yanked off his plane after it landed in Syracuse, New York, on Wednesday night by two FBI agents and two uniformed officers.
6508
French trainer Freddy Head has favourably compared his 2,000 Guineas hope Ride Like The Wind to last year's fifth-placed runner Charm Spirit, who landed three Group One races in 2014.
6509
'One of the bears stalked and then actively came for me.
Mr Carr, pictured, is expected to complete his journey tomorrow - beating the previous record by 24 hours .
6510
Motorists had to swerve out of the way of the giant hole after it appeared on the residential Earl Street in Northampton at around 2pm, just hours after part of a London pavement collapsed, swallowing a pedestrian.
It was gradual.
6511
Fernando Torres has hailed manager Diego Simeone as the reason behind Atletico Madrid's success ahead of their Champions League quarter-final meeting with  Real Madrid.
6512
After Ukip won the Rochester and Strood by-election last November and gained its second MP, Mr Farage said the party could go on to win 'dozens of seats' in the election.
6513
In September, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals overturned Overton's capital murder conviction in the 2006 salt poisoning death of her 4-year-old foster son, citing ineffective counsel at her 2007 trial for the death of Andrew Burd (right)
6514
Sumptuous sands:
I am staying in the southwest of the island at Mount Cinnamon on Grand Anse Beach, near the charming town of St George.
6515
Now Zala is 20 months old and she follows Bishop as she travels the world playing for professional teams, and will go with her to the U.S. this May when she starts playing for the Seattle Storm in the WNBA.
6516
Young Alexis Douglas was playing at her sister's friend's house in Melbourne earlier this year, when a neighbour's pitbull attacked the little girl.
6517
Aldi told the regulator it would put up signs at the entrance of stores and at registers to notify shoppers of the surcharge, as well as have cashiers inform customers before payments were made.
6518
Two of her teeth were also broken, she says .
After breaking free from his grip she punched him (left) - but says she had no idea he was a police officer .
6519
'It might be obvious, brash even - but it fits our current filtered, Insta-existence perfectly - there's no denying the collection looks great in a picture,' she said of the experience .
6520
Qunfei says when she was a child she would watch the rain falling on lotus leaves – which later inspired her to create Lens Technology's patented, scratch-resistant coating used on a range of Apple devices.
6521
The research, which was carried out by doctors from Oxford University (pictured) overturns the medical consensus that very young babies do not feel pain and do not need painkillers, even for invasive procedures .
6522
Holland manager Guus Hiddink has slammed his own supporters for booing Andres Iniesta during his side's 2-0 victory against Spain on Tuesday night and branded them a 'disgrace'.
6523
AJ Hadsell (left) was last seen driving near her parents' home in Norfolk and her stepfather Wesley Hadsell (right) was taken into custody late last month after being interrogated by police for more than 15 hours .
6524
Suspects: Amanda Knox and then boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito kissing shortly after Meredith's death. Rudy Guede (right) is serving a 16 year sentence for the murder .
6525
The draw for the Europa League semi-finals was made on Friday morning at UEFA's headquarters in Nyon .
The Europa League semi-final ties will be played on May 7 and 14.
6526
Around 250 Syrian refugees cross the border every day and in just four days leading up to March 18, over one thousand people had escaped the embattled country for Jordan.
6527
Mila Kunis has responded to Kristina Karo's accusations she stole her chicken as a child, with a video claiming she will counter-sue for injuries sustained while watching Karo's music video .
6528
The ceremony was followed by a reception at Cromlix House, Murray's luxury hotel near Dunblane .
'So, I don't think a whole lot's going to change.
6529
Socialite Noelle Reno, who is the former fiancee of businessman Scot Young who fell 60ft from his West London home last year, has broken her silence almost four months to the day since his horrific death .
6530
The chilling Facebook posts of a gun-obsessed 24-year-old man who is believed to have shot dead his father and tried to gun down a family friend before turning the rifle on himself have been revealed.
6531
A college sophomore who died of excessive alcohol consumption drank a 60-ounce bottle of vodka during what college officials said was the hazing of pledges at an unsanctioned fraternity, according to court papers filed in connection to the case.
6532
According to the video maker, who returns home with the other people in the clip to find the infestation, the birds came in through the chimney.
6533
The youngster's mother left the buggy in the lobby of their building on Merrimac Drive, Langley Park, as usual on Sunday evening since it's easier to carry her son to their second floor apartment.
6534
Mayweather faces Manny Pacquiao in a bout in Las Vegas that has been billed 'The Fight of the Century' 'I don't think Mayweather was that impressive in his last two defences against Marcos Maidana.
6535
This includes a five-course dinner, three glasses of wine each and one night's B&B accommodation.
I had asked Raymond which season was best to visit Le Manoir aux Quat' Saisons.
6536
Portuguese starlet Teixeira was carried off on a stretcher during Tuesday night's clash at the Amex Stadium .
6537
The nocturnal shopping sprees are likely down to the 86 per cent of those surveyed who admit to turning to online retailers to purchase items that they are too embarrassed to buy in stores.
6538
QPR will be without striker Eduardo Vargas on Tuesday evening, who has been ruled out for the rest of the season with a knee ligament injury.
6539
Vincent Stanford, 24, has been charged with the Easter Sunday murder of Ms Scott, who disappeared the weekend before her wedding to fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley.
6540
Charged: Royal Navy sailors Joshua Finbow, 23, (left) and Simon Radford, 31, (right) pictured in uniform and training .
Military base:
6541
Lewis Hamilton remains the richest sportsman in Britain with a fortune of £88million but Wayne Rooney has overtaken Jenson Button to be in second place in the 2015 Sunday Times Sport Rich List.
6542
Khloe wrote in a tweet on the day of their visit to the genocide memorial: 'My sister and I are trying to bring awareness not only to our Armenian genocide but genocides and human slaughter, in general.
6543
During the call, the dispatcher asked the woman 'Are you still moving?'
Rescue: Estes Park officers responded and got the woman out after finding her car keys, according to authorities .
6544
Silva turns around in pain before receiving several minutes treatment and being given oxygen .
Silva was given put in a neck brace and given oxygen as his concerned team-mates looked on .
6545
The First Minister, who has previously said merely that 'something substantial' would have to change before the SNP held a second independence referendum, said a Tory government seeking to take Scotland out of the EU against its will would be a trigger.
6546
'Our address being posted online to a website... is not OK,' she said, providing Daily Mail Australia with screenshots of her address posted on Facebook.
6547
No test playing nation has toured Pakistan due to security concerns since gunmen attacked the bus carrying Sri Lankan cricketers as they travelled to Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore in March 2009 for the third day of the second Test.
6548
But footage shows his adventuring took a turn for the worse with him plunging headfirst into one bag and struggling to get free.
Bag-napped:
6549
The 53-second video, posted on YouTube, features footage of the unnamed woman recording an incident involving multiple officers in South Gate on Sunday.
6550
Alex explained attempted to lose weight a few times, but neither the promise of an extended football career or a new car could motivate him to stick with it because he was unable to 'escape food's gravitational pull'.
6551
The teams are in at the Signal Iduna Park where Bayern will be hoping to stretch their seven-point lead at the top of the Bundesliga table by defeating Borussia Dortmund.
6552
Burger King's new Party in the Park menu consists of three new burgers, the Mushroom Swiss Steakhouse, the Pulled Pork BBQ Whopper and the Ciabatta Chicken Tendercrisp (pictured)
6553
The unsuspecting victim (pictured in the betting shop prior to the attack) had to remain in intensive care for 16 days and was  later readmitted to hospital for another 11 days for rehabilitation, Teesside court heard .
6554
Carroll High School senior Claudetteia Love will skip her senior prom after her Monroe, Louisiana, school's principal told her that she would not be allowed to wear a tuxedo .
6555
Mohamed Soltan, 27, was sentenced to life in prison after being found guilty of plotting unrest against the military-backed government that overthrew former Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi in a 2013 coup .
6556
Plans for a 'rainbow' zebra crossing to support gay rights in Totnes, Devon, could be abandoned amid fears it would cause hallucinations for dementia sufferers .
6557
Police believe that the two bank robbers suspected in a string of recent heists may have police or military training because of the way they handle a weapon .
6558
'We would never have awarded her': Cosmo editor Bronwyn McMahon says she wishes her magazine had better investigated Belle Gibson, who created The Whole Pantry wellness movement, before awarding her the 2014 Fun Fearless Female Award .
6559
The woman was just a few miles from her home when at 2pm her 2002 Ford Explorer ran off the road in the 15400 block of Genito Road and careened into a tree, reported the station WRIC.
6560
Following Mr Erstad's discovery on Sunday, there have been similar reports in southern Norway and sightings of worm rainfall in Lindås and Suldal near Bergen, and also hundreds of miles away in Femunden.
6561
Tiger Woods walks with his children Charlie (left) and Sam (second from right) and Lindsey Vonn (right)
And Woods explained how they got involved in the tournament.
6562
An elderly couple died of carbon monoxide poisoning after lighting a barbecue in their home (pictured) to keep warm during a power cut, an inquest heard .
6563
Scientists have identified a gene, named Nox3, found in the inner ear, that is crucial in determining how vulnerable a person is to developing hearing loss .
6564
As well as collecting royal memorabilia, Mrs Tyler, a retired charity worker, is also obsessed with meeting the real thing and says she spent six days outside the Lindo Wing at St. Mary's Hospital in London when Prince George was born.
6565
Kelly Ilczyszyn claims her husband Richard (pictured together with their daughter Sydney) could have survived his heart attack on a Southwest flight if attendants sought medical attention rather than police .
6566
Quitting:
Mr Farage was injured in a plane crash on the day of the 2010 General Election, suffering broken ribs and other minor injuries .
6567
The 52-year-old has been free on bail since March, when he was charged with sexually and indecently assaulting two 12-year-old boys at schools in Sydney more than 25 years ago.
6568
Gonzalo Higuain and Marek Hamsik put the visitors firmly in control as Rafa Benitez's side struck twice in the opening 45 minutes before the Slovakian midfielder added a third after the break.
6569
'It doesn't just disappear.'
The grey hole theory would allow matter and energy to be held for a period of time before being released back into space .
6570
An investigation is now underway amid reports Veronica Bolina (pictured) was set upon by officers on three different occasions after being taken into custody, leaving her face unrecognisable .
6571
One neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: 'A young couple live at that house, they've got a little girl and twin babies that were born about five-months-ago.
6572
Sheer:
Risks:
The 42-year-old said solo climbing is about risk assessing, calculating and fine tuning in order to 'minimise the inevitable'
6573
As he fires off the celebratory round, he loses control of the Kalashnikov rifle and fires at the wall by mistake, sending bullets spraying across the street.
6574
The ISIS hackers completely cut transmission of 11 channels belonging to Paris-based TV5 Monde and took over its websites and social media accounts for a full three hours early this morning.
6575
Passengers on board a Virgin Atlantic flight from Las Vegas to Gatwick who endured a 33-hour delay have described the incident as 'excruciating' and 'an absolute nightmare.'
6576
Dr Jean Emberlin said: High and very high pollen (pictured under the microscope) counts can trigger hayfever symptoms in people who have not had them before'
6577
Dereck Chisora is being lined up for a summer comeback and British heavyweight rival David Price is firmly in his sights.
He just loves it.'
6578
The van's driver 'apparently fell asleep and allowed the vehicle to leave the roadway, at which time the vehicle struck a tree on the passenger side,' Georgia State Patrol Cpl. Scott Smith told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
6579
Virgin has said the 'vast majority' of its price hikes affected 'Virgin Trains-only fares' - which are at least 20 per cent cheaper than tickets offered by rival firms .
6580
Hull City are keen on signing Leeds United midfielder Alex Mowatt.
Hull City manager Steve Bruce is keen to bolster the amount of homegrown talent in his squad this summer .
6581
Taxi driver Mohammed Nisar (left) accepts a reward from sole trader Adrian Quinn after returning a bag the passenger left in his taxi containing £10,000 in cash .
6582
There was adrenaline, action, twists and turns.
There was adrenaline, action, twists and turns as Ramsey and Sherwood went head to head at Villa Park .
6583
A woman has warned of the dangers of getting a cut-price boob job abroad after a bungling surgeon left her with a deformed breast that 'looked like a croissant'.
6584
France wing Noa Nakaitaci scoring two tries before half-time and Nick Abendanon, the ex-Bath and England full-back, capped a masterful display with a break-away try from 90 metres out.
6585
He said: 'To play Manchester United is to play one of the biggest clubs in the world and one of the best in the Premier League and this is what everybody wants.
6586
Alastair Cook in the nets ahead of the first Test in the West Indies of a vitally important series for his career .
For Cook is facing a Test series he has to win.
6587
Police say Mr Malik (pictured with one of his young children) had told his family he wanted to 'go and live in a Muslim country' and the family left without mentioning any holiday or travel plans to relatives, it is claimed .
6588
Party chiefs  scrambled to shore up support for Ed Miliband after it emerged dozens of Labour councils and MPs employ staff on zero-hour contracts .
6589
Jury selection has begun in Oklahoma for the murder trial of the teenager accused of shooting dead Australian baseball player Chris Lane.
6590
The Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (pictured) in New York has pushed back its planned screening of the controversial Iraq war film which was set for last Friday .
6591
A 24-year-old San Diego man . was arrested and charged on Thursday with lying to federal agents about his involvement with . Islamic State militants fighting in Syria, which has been documented on his Facebook page.
6592
Gareth Barry has advised his Everton team-mate Ross Barkley against moving to Manchester City at this young stage of his career.
6593
Johnson loses his world heavyweight title to Willard (left) over the course of 26 rounds in Havana in 1915 .
Like Muhammad Ali years later, he was a trailblazer.
6594
Wanted: Police have said that 24-year-old Bhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Patel, hit his wife Palak Bhadreskumar Patel multiple times with an object and then fled .
6595
Hundreds of morning commuters in Boston were delayed today after a truck crashed on an elevated highway over subway and rail tracks.
Commuter woes:
6596
Ben Jones-Bishop scored a spectacular solo try as the Salford Red Devils ended a run of 17 defeats in a row by Wigan after a thrilling 24-18 contest which saw both players finish with 12 men.
6597
Barca lead on 75 points after they squandered a 2-0 lead and drew 2-2 at fifth-placed Sevilla on Saturday, two ahead of second-placed Real Madrid, 3-0 winners at home to Eibar.
6598
Wenger had all but given up on Coquelin when he was sent on loan to Charlton before Christmas and did not expect Bellerin to progress with such speed after a year at Watford.
6599
Moyes, who gave Rooney his professional debut as a 16-year-old at Everton, succeeded Sir Alex Ferguson in the summer of 2013 - with the England striker being heavily linked with a move to Stamford Bridge at the same time.
6600
'We do not know how many years it will take...
The dispute has escalated in recent years with the discovery of oil and gas deposits.
6601
‘I want to stay there and the fans want to stay there as winners.
Burton Albion players celebrate with the fans after their victory against Morecambe confirmed promotion .
6602
But based on all of our reporting, it is clear that we were kidnapped by a criminal gang for money and released for propaganda purposes.
6603
Ms Boudreau is now dealing with the loss of her son by channeling her grief into work - helping families like hers from losing their radicalized children to the extremist group.
6604
That same night, Truong says his sister asked him to babysit the toddler he had never met before, saying it was her boyfriend's son and they wanted to go out on a date night.
6605
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon has made clear that scrapping the Trident missile system, which is based in Scotland, would be a red line for her propping up a Labour government in Westminster.
6606
London to South Yorkshire Aviation Museum, Doncaster and Bawtrey Fields Paintball near Doncaster (2 helicopters in total) to London = 342 miles .
6607
Russian Maria Sharapova has pulled out of this weekend's Fed Cup semi-final with a leg inury .
'Unfortunately her condition will not allow her to play for the national team.
6608
Jose Mourinho ended Chelsea's 50-year wait to be champions by winning the Premier League in his first season 2004/05, and then retained the trophy the following season.
6609
That, however, was the night Wayne Rooney was restored to a centre-forward position, the night Louis van Gaal finally began to realise the best place from which his best player and captain should lead was from the front.
6610
To remove the day's face, Kim uses a Black Clarisonic Mia Sonic Skin Cleansing System, left, loves to spritz her face with a £12 ($18) rose water mist from Glossier, centre, and protect her skin from the sun with a £65 ($96) Creme de la Mer SPF 30 UV Protecting Fluid, right .
6611
Paul Merson has restarted his row with Andros Townsend after the Tottenham midfielder was brought on with only seven minutes remaining in his team's 0-0 draw with Burnley on Sunday.
6612
Napoli travel to Wolfsburg for the first leg of the quarter-final and Benitez also added that his team had more character than his Europa League winning Chelsea team, as well as his Liverpool outfit who won the Champions League in 2005 .
6613
A fifth man, Alan Quinn, 28, present at the time of Mr Buchel's murder but not involved was also convicted of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and jailed for three years.
6614
It is not clear how the girl, who was taken to hospital in Hull, came to fall from the cliff but a spokesman for North Yorkshire Police said it was believed she may have been sitting at the cliff edge with a friend.
6615
The former Celtic striker has branded additional official Alan Muir 'idiotic' for failing to see a handball by Inverness Caley Thistle defender Josh Meekings in Sunday's Scottish Cup semi-final.
6616
During the Berlin theft, robbers are believed to have spent several weeks tunnelling 100ft underground, before drilling through 3ft of concrete walls to break into a bank's strongroom.
6617
During a raid on the fake dentist's practice, authorities discovered hundreds of patient files, two dentist chairs, an X-ray machine and dental molds (pictured)
6618
Kelly and his friend drove to Interstate Park on the Wisconsin side, where the argument escalated and one of the men pulled out a knife and stabbed Kelly in the chest.
6619
Dion Dublin made his presenting debut on Monday morning as the former footballer co-hosted BBC television show Homes Under The Hammer.
6620
Broner called Garcia out, again on Instagram, for a September fight after 'Swift' kept his unbeaten record in tact with a win over Peterson with a controversial majority decision .
6621
Tiffanie DiDonato, from Swansboro, North Carolina, was born with diastrophic dysplasia and underwent numerous limb-lengthening surgeries as a child so she would grow to be 4'10 tall, instead of her previous height of 3'8, which is how tall her son Titan currently is.
6622
#weedisnotacrime.' he posted.
Take photos while I light up at 4.20pm and share via social media using the hashtag #weedisnotacrime,' the post said.
6623
Two 18-month-old twins drowned in a canal in Arizona after their mother tried to swat away a bee and let go of their stroller, police in Yuma said.
6624
Two teenagers have finally apologized for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl who later committed suicide after images of the attack were shared around her high school.
6625
From left to right: Fiona Steane is 50 with 3ft long hair,  Sarah Rihal is also 50 and has 3ft 5in of hair, Melanie Brown is 60 and has 4ft long hair and Vanessa Thorpe is 40 with 2ft 10in of hair .
6626
Who do you think WILL win the fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao?
However, Mayweather's most unhealthy food craving has got to be 'fried hot dogs... with barbecue sauce'.
6627
Aidy Boothroyd will lead the team this time in the Toulon Tournament that runs from May 27 until June 7 .
The tournament runs from May 27 to June 7.
6628
As it stands, the only way to reach Saint Helena is via ship - the RMS St. Helena, a Royal Mail Ship that transports all supplies to the island .
6629
Edward Snowden is being ‘exploited’ under a deal he made with the Russians to guarantee him asylum, a leading spy analyst has claimed.
6630
Speaking outside court, the child's 35-year-old father (pictured)- who is not being named to protect the identity of the victim - said the sentence would give his son's attacker the chance to reflect on his actions .
6631
Begiristain, who also wants Wolfsburg's former Chelsea midfielder Kevin de Bruyne, watched Porto in action against Bayern Munich having sent scouts to watch them in the first leg in Portugal last week.
6632
New advert ends with Pacquiao acting confused over possibility of facing his long-term boxing rival .
6633
Video footage shows a white ball being rolled down a positioned cue - it then bounces off one side of the red-clothed table and hits the first in a long line of dominoes .
6634
The 35-year-old window cleaner, from Bradford, was one of three men who were arrested after Naval officers stormed the yacht, pictured being brought into Cobh,  200 miles off the south-west coast of Ireland in September .
6635
'All my grandparents, you know, came over here,' she said during a small business roundtable event, 'and you know my grandfather went to work in lace mill in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and worked there until he retired at 65.
6636
Manchester United star Ryan Giggs has apologised to his brother for the eight-year affair he had with his  wife.
Much happier times:
6637
Lindsay Lohan's game is comparatively sillier, and works more as a tongue-in-cheek critique of celebrity culture.
ANKLE BRACELETS WILL WIN YOU FANS .
6638
Mrs Mason and her friend Margaret Seabrook, 75, had been to a lunch club meeting in Swindon, Wiltshire, when an 'evil looking' man tried to rob them of the contents of their mobility scooter baskets .
6639
More than 160 melon-headed whales washed onto two beaches at Hokota city, north-east of Tokyo .
On a typical day, the cameras would record between five and 15 animal sightings.
6640
The tongue-in-cheek beauty pageant, which featured 50 dogs, is the kickoff event for the Drake Relays track meet.
'He's funny,' said Tank's owner, Duane Smith.
6641
Stroke patients with damage in the sagittal stratum in the right hemisphere of the brain (shown in the image above) were far poorer at detecting sarcasm when listening to sentences, according to the new research .
6642
Mrs Briggs had believed Broomhill Infants School in Sheffield, where Charlotte is a student, was a feeder school to Lydgate Junior, so only put one school on Charlotte's admission form.
6643
An Egyptian court has sentenced popular Armenian belly dancer 'Safinaz' to six months in prison for 'insulting the Egyptian flag' after she wore a tight dress in its red, white and black color scheme .
6644
West Ham's season tickets will cost as little as £289 when the club move to the Olympic Stadium next year .
‘It is just nonsense,’ Brady told Sky Sports News.
6645
On the same month that Lloyd was murdered, a former friend filed a lawsuit against Hernandez claiming the NFL star had shot him in the mouth in February 2013 following a fight at a Miami strip club.
6646
A friendly stranger left this unbelievably friendly letter to Alberta law student Derek Murray in order to help him get his car started after he left the headlights on all day .
6647
If they choose to lose Pellegrini, then they need to think big next time and go for a manager showing true potential to be great – like Diego Simeone or Jurgen Klopp.
6648
Nicholas Connors gave a rousing performance ahead of the Houston Rockets and Dallas Mavericks NBA playoffs game - with one of his favorite NFL players watching from the sidelines, Houston Texans defensive lineman J.J. Watt.
6649
Christian Eriksen celebrates after the Swedish midfielder's curling free-kick misses his team-mates and Tim Krul in the Newcastle goal .
6650
Kim Woodward has been appointed head chef at the famous venue, which has hosted lunches for the likes of prime ministers, musicians and captains of industry for decades.
6651
Jordon Ibe is on the verge of signing a new long-term contract as Brendan Rodgers prepares to re-launch the exciting teenager’s season.
6652
The mass, which has risen some 30 to 50ft above sea level,  measures roughly 1,000- 1,640ft long, and 100ft wide, a town official said.
6653
Police have found Miss Buckley's handbag, believed to be that circled (left), in a park where the search continued yesterday (right) As well as a thorough search of Dawsholm Park, officers were seen scouring the gardens near a flat .
6654
Manager Brendan Rodgers, who has suffered another trophyless season after the shock FA Cup semi-final defeat by Aston Villa, could see up to 10 of his stars leave.
6655
Video footage of the incident, taken by a bystander, has emerged and shows the 30-year-old being repeatedly hit by an officer as he lay on the road.
6656
Yzeiraj was fired from Ultimate Dental Care of Riverdale, New York (pictured) after the company found out she was illegally performing as a dentist from late 2012 to summer 2013 .
6657
2004-07   West Ham .
Nigel Reo-Coker, formerly of West Ham and Aston Villa, captained the Impact for 76 minutes  before he was replaced.
Reo
6658
McCoy's wife, Chanelle, will be pleased her husband no longer risks adding to a roll call of injuries that make the longevity of his time at the top all the more remarkable – and McCoy's father says he no longer enjoys watching him race.
6659
TH Clements & Son (pictured) which owns the field in Benington, Lincolnshire, where the worker was caught urinating said he was sacked with immediate effect after the company was alerted .
6660
Fleeing:
From where Scott's car was parked, his client could see Slager chase after Scott but did not see him get shot, Peper said.
Saying goodbye:
6661
Wasps coach Dai Young has called for reform to the Premiership salary cap so English clubs can compete on the European stage - the comments came after his team lost 32-18 to Toulon on Sunday .
6662
The dramatic, up-close images, captured by a Bornean student, show the incredible power of the tiny creature.
He shot the super close-ups in his front garden at home.
6663
Mr Taylor said mini marts would be the initial focus of the alcohol ban, which would be broadened but not apply to certain locations to protect tourism, such as five-star hotels.
6664
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini accepts his side are now facing a fight to stay in the Champions League places.
I hope that we will continue.'
6665
Smash:
The driver and passenger of the Mercedes, which was wedged between two buses, were treated at the scene, Metropolitan Police said.
6666
Mr Beefnah, from Colchester, Essex, claims a fault with the Audi 2011 TFSI (turbo fuel stratified injection) petrol engine is widespread and is taking the dealership to court over their failure to fix it on his car.
6667
But new research suggests that the Roman general may in fact have been suffering from a series of mini-strokes that affected both his mental and physical state.
6668
'They knew what no nurse ever seems prepared in public to admit: men in a maternity ward are a flat-footed menace,' says Quentin Letts, who says he made it through just a week of his own paternity leave .
6669
Fish, like the Thresher Shark (shown), have been spotted in unusual places, supporting recent reports that West Coast marine ecosystems are suffering and the food web is being disrupted by warm, less nutrient-rich Pacific Ocean water .
6670
Steven Mathieson, 38 (left), stabbed prostitute Luciana Maurer, 23, (right) dozens of times in a frenzied and unprovoked attack at his home Falkirk, Stirlingshire last December, while his partner was on a night out .
6671
Lee Allan Bonneau was 6 years old when in August 2013 he was attacked by a 10-year-old boy and beaten to death with a rock and a stick .
6672
Premier League leaders Chelsea host a resurgent Manchester United in the Premier League on Saturday .
Will Angel di Maria get a look in?
Yes.
Yes.
6673
The twin 18-month-old boys who died after falling into an Arizona canal last week have been identified as bothers Eli and Silas Keslar of Yuma.
6674
Police were called to Boonies Bar  in West Palm Beach on Friday night after getting a report about a woman who was offering oral sex in exchange for money and refusing to leave the establishment.
6675
The study didn't examine motives behind criminal breaches, or how stolen data might have been used, but cyber-security experts say thieves may try to use patients' personal information to fraudulently obtain medical services.
6676
But despite the crew successfully rescuing Martha, they have warned about the importance of owners not attempting to rescue their pets, who get into difficulty at sea.
6677
Chris Ramsey believes three wins from the last five games will be enough to secure Queens Park Rangers' top flight status.
We're not happy with late goals.
6678
A couple who took their 14-year-old son out of Sweyne Park School in Essex without permission for a five-day holiday to Spain were forced to pay a £1,230 fine after bailiffs were called in .
6679
Bruce said: 'He will be involved.
Mohamed Diame is set to return from injury for Hull City's visit to Swansea City on Saturday .
6680
Federal prosecutors said Linn drove from his home in St. Joe, Indiana, to the Islamic Center of Greater Toledo (pictured) in September 20112, broke into the mosque, poured gasoline on a prayer rug and set it on fire .
6681
The three men - Thomas Jordan Driver, 25, David Elliot Moran, 47, and Charles Thomas Newcomb, 42 - were arrested Thursday and each faces one state count of conspiracy to commit murder, Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi's office said in a written statement.
6682
By keeping fresh herbs in the freezer you will intensify their flavour because they take on moisture during the freezing process .
CRISPS .
6683
Tim Sherwood has insisted Aston Villa’s impending summer takeover is not a concern and he plans to build a squad in his image for next season provided the club stay up.
6684
Michael Conlan was on the verge of pulling out of his must-win bout in the World Series of Boxing before opting to fight and claiming a dramatic win to book his place at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games alongside team-mate Paddy Barnes.
6685
Sarah Sparkman (left), a lawyer from Arkansas, tweeted about how female sports reporters are sexualized - and was met with a tirade of anger from Britt McHenry (right) despite not tagging her in the tweet .
6686
Brighton (4-2-3-1) Stockdale; Bruno, Halford, Dunk, Bennett; Stephens, Kayal (Ince 67); Calderon, Teixeira (Mackail-Smith 74), Carayol (LuaLua 74); Best.
6687
Richie Benaud’s family have been offered a state funeral after Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott called his death the ‘greatest loss for cricket since the loss of Don Bradman’.
6688
Addressing ‘bend gate’ after the phone’s launch, Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller said: 'With normal use, a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus.'
6689
Mr Pratt added: 'We say that Kay-Ann Morris was lying when she told the police officers at the scene that Shanay had accidentally fallen down the stairs.
6690
Flight attendants asked the family to put the boy in his seat and buckle his safety belt, but the parents refused to obey their directions and insisted that the boy be allowed to sit on his mother’s lap, the South China Morning Post reported.
6691
Al Roker, Natalie Morales and Willie Geist went head to head with Savannah Guthrie and Carson Daly during the Today show's first ever lip sync battle, which was judged by Chrissy Teigen .
6692
'I just do my talking on the track.
Hamilton's Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg addresses the media ahead of the Bahrain Grand Prix .
6693
Once he's put an item in the machine, Baron patiently waits for another to be rinsed by his owner.
Hard at work: He then gets back up on his back legs to collect his next load .
6694
Marissa Holcomb, who is five months pregnant with her fourth child, was held at up at the fried chicken chain store in Channelview on March 31 and then fired because of it .
6695
The secondary school's policy outlined in the 2015 Personal Learning Journal states that girls are to wear 'black leather lace-up school shoes (not fashion heels)' for both summer and winter uniforms, a guideline which Ms Parker said Riley's shoes meet.
6696
U.S. authorities filed treason charges against him in 2006 and had offered a $1 million reward for information leading to his arrest or conviction.
6697
When the event was announced, Warner Bros Consumer Products president Brad Globe said: 'Warner Bros Consumer Products is thrilled to team up with partners around the world to set the world record for the most people dressed as DC Comics Superheroes.
6698
Also don’t stroll around too flashily dressed: ‘It is better to look scruffily right than too smartly wrong,’ he says.
It’s amazing how many drug-dealers try to behave like drug-dealers in a film.
6699
In a bizarre twist, the alleged victim in the case, 19-year-old Austin Essig, took to the Fort Collins police department's Facebook page to describe the strange 'trip' he experienced after eating the brownie.
6700
At least 15 Fortune 500 companies, many of them worth north of a $1 billion, paid zero income taxes in 2014, says a report out last week from the Citizens for Tax Justice.
6701
'Now that this is behind us, let's move forward together with a renewed commitment to the civility and respect that make this state great,' Indiana Governor Mike Pence said after signing his state's amended measure Thursday evening .
6702
Hilarious stunt:
Britt Reynolds shared this photo of her classmate Roman Ehrhardt grilling bacon on a George Foreman during class on Monday .
6703
Former Barcelona and Brazil forward Ronaldinho marked a late cameo in Queretaro's surprise 4-0 thumping of Club America with a brace.
6704
The Christian Dior fragrance, Eau Savage, was the first to use it in 1966, and it has since found its way into other fragrances such as Chamade by Guerlain, CKOne, Paco by Paco Rabane and Chanel no. 19.
6705
Comfortably Numb is a new, single-use device that eases the pain of an injection by producing a rapid chemical reaction to cool the patient's skin within 60 seconds .
6706
'In the past, you think a lot about the World Cup as it comes up, but not being in the squad has helped me take my focus off it and I am just enjoying my time with Gloucester and not thinking about Wales, in a way.
6707
Tim Sherwood is keen to develop Villa’s young talent and Toner has been among a select few to train with the first team, alongside the likes of Lewis Kinsella and Rushian Hepburn-Murphy.
6708
The images of the couple at a podium flanked by top party officials were published in state media.
But Ri has been out of the spotlight since December for unknown reasons.
6709
Scotland youth international Jack Cosgrove has agreed to join Edinburgh next season on a two-year deal .
6710
Where is Elizabeth?
 Elizabeth Elena Laguna Salgado, 26, from Chiapas, Mexico, was last seen leaving a language school in Provo, Utah, April 16 .
6711
Mr Farage is facing a fight to win his own election battle after falling behind the Tories in South Thanet, Kent - despite enjoying a 12 point lead of his Conservative rival just two months ago .
6712
The results could help farmers on Earth get a higher crop yield - and may also help future astronauts grow plants on missions beyond Earth orbit to the moon and Mars (illustration shown)
6713
Nine British nationals, three men, two women and four children, have been arrested trying to enter Syria illegally, and are now in the custody of Turkish officials (file picture)
6714
Lucy, the oldest and most complete fossil of an early human ever found, still has a few secrets to reveal.
The study found Little Foot, a member of the species .
6715
Officers trailed it on foot and in patrol cars as it ran across roads and dipped between cars.
The wild animal crossed roads and avoided cars as it ran freely on Saturday morning .
6716
Isis was removed from the official list of future Pacific hurricane names by the UN's World Meteorological Organization, a WMO spokeswoman announced on Friday.
6717
Anna James, 32, has vowed to defy the school's ban on taking her children to the 'Obby 'Oss celebrations - claiming the rituals are part of her 'religion, culture and heritage.'
6718
The new attraction has been visited by actors Angela Griffin and Tamzin Outhwaite already.
Actors Angela Griffin and Tamzin Outhwaite visited the new attraction .
6719
The filmmakers said they plan to use the latest digital camera technology as they venture from the planet's ice caps to ocean depths to deserts and remote forests.
6720
'By partnering with artisan food and wine producers around France and offering free delivery to select locations across the city, Paris Picnic simplifies the process of planning and arranging a picnic.'
6721
A lottery winner who thought her husband was playing an April Fools' Day prank when he told her they had scooped £53million has returned to making lunches for pensioners a week after their big win.
6722
‘I can’t afford to have it done but I’m absolutely desperate to get rid of them,' says Miss Bennett, who claims she has applied for 40 jobs in the last year but without success.
6723
Iain Mackay, 40, (pictured) is understood to have got into a fight at the Hua Hin resort, 125 miles south of Bangkok, after discovering the woman chatting with another man at a bar in the coastal city .
6724
Matthew Bird said he was happy to give up is $70,000 a year pay check for a meagre wage of $38,000 a year, if it meant his child support payment dropped to $554 a month .
6725
His poor touch allowed Abel Hernandez to score in Chelsea's 3-2 win over Hull on March 22 before Stoke's Charlie Adam beat him from 66 yards last weekend.
6726
The red sand swept across the northern part of the country bringing strong winds and floating sand to the regions of Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia, Gansu, Ningxia and Shaanxi, in what was the fourth sandstorm to hit the area this year.
6727
In broad daylight: Mathis' 48-year-old husband was found bleeding from a wound in his neck under a bridge in the 1800 block of Commercial Street in San Diego Sunday afternoon .
6728
Burnley Magistrates' Court heard that the pair had both wound down their car windows to exchange words outside St John's Primary School, in Burnley, Lancashire (pictured), when Moore then jumped out of his car, and punched Mr Cegielka through his open car window.
6729
Various tools also let you find out more information about the asteroid.
The Dawn spacecraft spent a year, from 2011 to 2012, mapping and exploring Vesta (illustration shown).
6730
The Queen awards a Victoria Cross to Lance Corporal Joshua Leakey, who showed immense bravery by drawing enemy fire and helping his comrades before taking the fight to the Taliban in August 2013 .
6731
Her flashy pictures did not sit well in a country where people work an average of 2 226 hours a year and households take in an average of $12,850 per year after taxes.
6732
'She heard a noise like hailstones and the floor beneath her fell away and she fell to the basement together with a section of the building', said Mr Lawrence.
6733
The Sun Journal reports that the 59-year-old Hulbert worked for Bates President A. Clayton Spencer for a little longer than a month in the summer of 2012.
6734
Reigning Masters champion Bubba Watson admits he must 'improve as a man' after his fellow professionals appeared to choose him as the most unpopular player on the PGA Tour.
6735
Decommissioning and dismantling all six reactors is a delicate, time-consuming process that includes removing the melted fuel from a highly radioactive environment, as well as all the extra fuel rods, which sit in cooling pools at the top of the reactor buildings.
6736
And it's not only Kendall, 19, who Gigi has taken social media tips from as she believes former Victoria's Secret model Karlie Kloss is comfortable with her social media persona.
Visit site .
6737
Elephant activist Courtney Scott (left) has claimed Oregon Zoo officials should not have placed Rama with female elephants at a young age.
6738
Charnelle Hughes, who was left scarred, swollen and fearing she might lose her right eye after being struck in the face by a pint glass, which was thrown across a crowded pub .
6739
In the aftermath of Sunday's defeat to United at Old Trafford, Sky Sports pundits Gary Neville and Graeme Souness were highly critical of Toure.
6740
For example, the goggles can project navigation information with arrows onto the roads, as well as showing speed limits and even point out local landmarks.
6741
Ed Miliband used a speech in Stockton-on-tees today to promise there is 'nothing more British than the dream of home-ownership' as he sets out plans to prioritise new homes for local people .
6742
Leeds: Silvestri, Wootton (Antenucci 66'), Bellusci, Bamba, Berardi (Cooper 66'), Austin, Murphy, Byram, Mowatt, Charlie Taylor, Morison (Sharp 86') Subs not used:  Stuart Taylor, Dawson, Doukara, Philips .
6743
The to-and-fro nature continued and a pair of Hull penalties gave them a great position to have another crack at the line with wing Curtis Naughton just managing to get the ball down despite tackle of Bailey to cut the deficit to 12-10 on 24 minutes.
6744
Mr Brunel has not filed a claim against Miss Roberts yet but said that if she repeats her ‘lies’ again she will ‘end up in prison for perjury’.
6745
Perth Glory supporters, who set off a series of flares, will face the prospect of a five year ban after the club slumped to a 3-0 defeat to Sydney FC.
6746
In images shot to promote another BBC series Being Human, the actor, who is dating fellow rising Irish star Sarah Greene, appears to have a much thicker chest of hair, suggesting that he's done away with his natural rug in a bid to really show off the muscles underneath.
6747
The couple, pictured last year, have not listed the reasons behind their divorce, citing only 'conflict' Katie Hamilton, pictured with her oldest daughter, Julia, will appear on the upcoming 10th season of the Real Housewives of Orange County.
6748
'I had this vision and this dream of trying to become the best player in the world and I just wanted to do everything I could to try and achieve that.
6749
Ms Sturgeon said that Mr Miliband will 'have to reflect how people have voted and they will have to on a practical level be prepared to talk to others and compromise with others in order to get their policies through'
6750
The video concludes with the puppy staring at the video maker after chewing the basket .
The video concludes with the dog staring at the video maker looking like butter wouldn’t melt.
6751
Malaysian authorities have expressed increasing alarm in the wake of ISIS' bloody jihad in Syria, which police say has drawn dozens of recruits from traditionally moderate, Muslim-majority Malaysia .
6752
Jeremy Clarkson will not be hosting an episode of Have I Got News For You later this month, according to the show's producers, though they expect him to return to the show later in the year .
6753
Jurgen Klopp would be perfect for Arsenal but the club should keep faith with Arsene Wenger, according to Gunners legend Nigel Winterburn.
6754
Tragically, father Mr Zeyat - who would normally have been working away from home - had  popped home to see his family when he too became a victim of the gas leak or food poisoning and died.
6755
Manchester United's Radamel Falcao believes Manchester City counterpart Sergio Aguero is his side's biggest threat.
'In Manchester the derby means a lot.
6756
AJ Hadsell (left) was last seen driving near her parents' home in Norfolk and her stepfather Wesley Hadsell (right) was taken into custody late last month after being interrogated by police for more than 15 hours .
6757
Doug Hughes flys his gyro-copter  near the Wauchula Municipal Airport in Wauchula, Florida in March during a trial-run for his US Capitol stunt .
6758
Cleopatra, left, the famed Egyptian beauty, famously bathed in donkey-milk baths, while Empress Elisabeth of Austria, right, loved to conjure up her own face creams in the 19th century .
6759
Researchers have found a similar pattern in two apparently unrelated places - skin cells and the mysterious fairy circles in the Namibian desert.
6760
Marilyn Zuniga apologised after she allowed her students to write to convicted police killer Mumia Abu-Jamal after he became ill while serving a life sentence in prison, but said the students wanted to write to him .
6761
About 300 people - including the 24-year-old's mother and father Marian and John, and their son Kieran - attended a memorial at Glasgow's George Square today.
6762
The fight is expected to earn at least $300million (£195m) with Mayweather receiving $180m (£117) and Pacquiao $120m (£79m).
6763
Crater of Diamonds State Park has the only diamond-bearing site accessible to the public in the U.S. Clark's diamond was the largest of the 122 found this year on the 37.5-acre search field .
6764
Eloise Parry, known as Ella, 'burned up from the inside, after swallowing the highly-toxic substance known as Dinitrophenol, or DNP.
6765
It's not the first time racing ace Lewis Hamilton has sprayed a grid girl with bubbly - he's also done it after winning the Spanish Grand Prix and even at the Austrian Grand Prix, where he lost out on the top spot .
6766
Clinton had brought attention to the issue with her campaign launch video on Sunday that featured 'everyday' Americans preparing for something big - including a gay couple planning their wedding.
6767
Terrill Wayne Newman (right), who is vying to become Governor of Kentucky, has legally changed his name to Gatewood Galbraith after the late local celebrity (left) who bid five times for the title but never won .
6768
This comes after SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon warned Mr Miliband he would not be forgiven if he allowed David Cameron back into Downing Street because he was unwilling to do a deal with the SNP.
6769
Fans of rapper Tinie Tempah were left furious when the star turned up hours late to his own 'intimate gig' and only performed two songs before leaving.
6770
The 73-year-old woman suffered severe bruising to her legs and ribs after her blue Vauxhall Corsa collided with railings on the petrol forecourt of the Asda store in Hulme, Manchester (not pictured)
6771
Bayern Munich holding midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger is doubtful for their German Cup quarter-final against Bayer Leverkusen on Wednesday after picking up an ankle injury.
6772
Mertesacker said: 'I've got some nice experiences in the Premier League and of course it would be nice if a German coach would take the challenge of working in the Premier League.
6773
An experimental cancer drug axed over poor results may have the ability to reverse the effects of Alzheimer's, experts have revealed (file picture)
6774
Or users can buy pre-folded versions from designers for around $24.99 (£16.75).
Alternatively Google offers its Google Cardboard headset for free by downloading the folding instructions.
6775
Furious 7 has raced to . the top of the domestic box office, picking up a massive $143.6 . million in its opening weekend.
2. Home, $27.4m .
6776
The final preparations for the wedding in Dunblane’s Cathedral on Saturday afternoon are underway after the happy couple visited the venue on Friday to run through rehearsals.
6777
Chelsea are nine points clear of Manchester City with both teams having eight games left to play .
‘I feel pushed,’ said Hart.
I push myself personally.
6778
Checking out his big brown barnet back in 1985, we'd say it's a good thing Clooney has been embracing the silver look since he was 33.
6779
Jane Bacon, 51, from East Grinstead, West Sussex, was told she would have to pay £176 to change her flights to Sharm El Sheikh after she tried to delay her 'final holiday' when doctors said she needed chemotherapy .
6780
Aaron Ramsey was relieved after Arsenal ground their way past Reading in extra time to return to the FA Cup final.
It doesn't matter how, we're in another final.'
6781
Lost to leather label:
Melbourne model to LA label: Kylie Gulliver has grown Elliott Label from small start-up to LA lifestyle brand .
6782
You could not ask for a better son.
The 25-year-old, who also coached young children, was found by his housemate Kris Lake who tried to resuscitate him .
6783
Peter Moores, England’s coach, dragged him to one side after his clash with Marlon Samuels in the second Test and had a long chat with him and if it was to talk about how he should respond then the advice he gave was clearly right.
6784
‘He’s a good player but so are James and Kyle, and Liam has improved.
James Ward (left) and Kyle Edmund should try to use Bedene as motivation to get better as a player .
6785
The father created a photo series called 'Wil Can Fly' in which the toddler appears to be flying in many different scenes.
Wil flies through the forest .
6786
England ace Joe Hart labelled fellow goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon a 'legend of the game' after seeing the Italian veteran claim his 147th cap.
6787
Mack, 23, claims MMA fighter Koppenhaver, 33, became abusive months into their one-year relationship .
'Just feeling my face, I knew it wasn't right.
6788
The Ukip leader called on Conservatives to vote tactically for him in seats where they cannot win in order to help keep the Tory leader as Prime Minister.
6789
Charity runners taking part in yesterday's Bournemouth Bay 10K Run (pictured) were left exhausted after being sent on an unscheduled two-mile detour .
6790
Ursula Ward, the mother of Odin Lloyd, wants to look Hernandez in the eye when he testifies during the wrongful death suit.
, Boston.com reported.
6791
Over a two day period last week temperatures reached 17.4°C (63.3°F) and 17.5°C (63.5°F).
Climate scientists have blamed the changes happening there on human-generated global warming.
6792
Cheltenham Town have two games to preserve their Football League status - and manager Gary Johnson has revealed one of the techniques he is using to try and bring the best out of his players.
6793
Comcast is abandoning its bid to buy Time Warner Cable for $45.2billion and  create a mega-size TV and internet provider, it was reported today.
6794
Crystal Palace manager Alan Pardew insists he is better than many of the Premier League's big-name managers but has no immediate plans to leave Selhurst Park for a table-topping side.
6795
Ilford-born Benn, who now lives in Australia and works as a charity worker, looked as sharp as ever as he joined in a playful pad session with Ricky Hatton at his Manchester gym.
6796
Now, for the first time, scientists have joined these individual 30 to 60 mile (50 to 100km) wide strips to create a single complete 3D map.
6797
Graphic signs telling visitors not to stop for a poo break during their walk to the holy city of Santiago de Compostela, in north-western Spain, have been erected in the municipality of Lastres.
6798
Cardiff City will have no supporters present at Saturday's Championship game against Leeds United at Elland Road after the Welsh club backed their fans in handing back their allocation of 500 tickets.
6799
According Piper Jaffray senior analyst Gene Munster, Apple is expected to sell a million watches in its first weekend on sale, three times the first-day sales of Apple's last all-new product, the iPad.
6800
Socialist Party leader Jean-Christophe Cambadelis suggesting the in-fighting exposes the true nature of the FN, saying: 'Jean-Marie Le Pen says out loud what many FN leaders, members and even voters think.
6801
Arsene Wenger says that Arsenal will have to be perfect until the end of the season if they want to challenge for the title — but maintains that they will be ready if Chelsea slip.
6802
Barcelona club president Josep Maria Bartomeu has insisted that the La Liga leaders have no plans to replace Luis Enrique and they're 'very happy' with him.
6803
This comes after the release of 216 Yazidi prisoners who had been held captive since last summer when ISIS militants attacked their villages in the area around Sinjar in northwestern Iraq.
6804
Jeremy Clarkson talked himself out of a parking ticket in London today after leaving his green Lamborghini parked on yellow lines .
6805
The medals for Mr Slade's service included the distinguished Airforce Cross, an order of the British Empire, a War Medal 39-45 Star, a Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Medal among various others.
6806
Instead Radcliffe turned to renowned German doctor Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt, who has worked with the likes of Ronaldo, Michael Owen and Usain Bolt.
6807
Friends and neighbours.
QPR scored four goals in a Premier League away game for the first time since March 1994 v Norwich (4-3).
6808
Videos can be filmed multiple times until the user is happy with the result, and then the clip is uploaded.
 All videos are public.
6809
Bird said Troy Prince (left, pictured with VP Joe Biden), who was executive director of the Iowa Democratic Party until he left last month to help Clinton's statewide political effort, recruited him and others to attend the 'spontaneous' coffee meeting .
6810
A union conference heard today that schools are struggling to cope with an influx of children arriving unable to speak English - forcing some teachers to use Google translate to make lesson plans in other languages .
6811
This is a brilliant and creative approach to my books.'
Rumored leads: Javier Bardem (left) and Russell Crowe (right) are said to be interested in the lead role .
6812
In an exclusive interview with The Mail on Sunday, Mr Lane said: ‘I’ve been told by police they are shelving their inquiries due to insufficient evidence.
6813
There were a lot of potential managers in the Arsenal team that Patrick Vieira captained but he, more than anybody, looked destined to be a top boss.
6814
A superb long ball by Michael Turner found Matt Smith who headed on to the Scotsman to loop the ball over the top of Charlton goalkeeper Stephen Henderson in front of the 1620 travelling fans in the Jimmy Seed stand.
6815
The spacecraft completed a manoeuvre yesterday that will bring it from about 250 miles (400km) of the comet to within 90 miles (140km) by Wednesday next week.
6816
Other pieces gave the illusion of water being thrown in the models' faces.
Those distracted by the headwear missed 12 dreamy looks in cream and blue hues float down the catwalk.
6817
Ferguson, whose double somersault horror fall from the favourite Merrion Square in the 4.20pm at Wincanton on Wednesday has been watched hundreds of thousands of times online.
6818
Tony Penner, a passenger on the plane, told the Manchester Evening News that the disruptive man punched a bus door and uttered threats as travellers were being driven to the plane on Friday night.
6819
This ticketed charity event is the brainchild of event organiser and spiritual dog trainer Natty Mason who has worked with whole foods, and gluten-free trained chef Emily Stevenson to devise the menus.
6820
As it stands Liverpool will not budge from their £100,000-a-week contract offer to England international Sterling, whose advisors believe he is worth about £150,000 in the current market.
6821
Footage captured from within a police car at the scene show shell cases flying as police officer Eddie Trimino fatally shot schizophrenic 25-year-old Lavall Hall, who was black, outside his home in Miami Gardens .
6822
Plane manufacturer, Airbus, recently predicted the development of travel trends over the next 50 years and their planes look like something out of a sci-fi film.
6823
Last October when Ms Giufre was still in hospital, her parents spoke about their grave concerns that their daughter would have to learn to walk, talk and eat again.
6824
3. The affluent and healthy elderly: This group was the least deprived cluster and had positive health characteristics - although the group included a large proportion with high blood pressure - and above average alcohol consumption (file image)
6825
Still standing: Recalling the chain of events Henry later wrote on Facebook: 'Stoked to be alive is all I can say and I wasn't injured at all'
6826
She was wearing a red jacket and black leggings with white stars on the legs and carrying a black and red schoolbag-style bag when last seen.
6827
Shannon Hayes, centre, believes her pet hen, right, has laid the world's smallest ever egg, left .
Shannon spotted it among the ordinary-sized eggs in her hen coop.
6828
Danny Garcia (2nd left) is set to fight Lamont Peterson (2nd right) in a non-title fight on Saturday .
Well, my style is to kick his butt.
6829
John Suchet (right) is in mourning after losing his wife Bonnie following her decade-long battle with dementia .
I don't know, and I'm not going to ask.
6830
Vatican medics told Francis to cut his pasta intake to two servings a week and take a daily walk, like his predecessor Pope Benedict XVI did.
6831
'Adored for her impeccably glamorous beauty and her striking ruby red pout, Marilyn always completed her look with dark lined eyes that were framed with thick and volumised lashes,' states Max Factor's creative director Pat McGrath.
6832
Alongside the video, the Toronto filmmaker wrote in the description: 'I wore my GoPro to work one day and decided to edit the footage to the style of a GoPro commercial.'
6833
'How can you tell me that a manager goes and watches Man United against Tottenham, the winger gets taken off after 30 minutes, the winger from the other team absolutely rinses the full-back for England and Ashley Young doesn't get in the squad?'
6834
Ms Bialek's husband, Sabino Matera, confirmed she was home with a post on his Facebook page .
Her husband Sabino Matera has made a worried plea on Facebook in a bid to help find her .
6835
Ms Marson (right) was suspended after other staff members claimed they had witness the alleged affair inside the Kempsey prison .
6836
The station orbits at a height of about 255 miles (410km).
The video captures breathtakingly clear images of earth as astronauts work from a distance of 250 miles.
6837
Find out: Ask questions.
Do they treat their friends and family well?
Find out: Do they have lots of friends, or have much contact with their family?
6838
Manchester City coaching duo Patrick Vieira and Brian Kidd watch on as Manchester City's young stars take on Chelsea in Manchester .
6839
Italians embrace the Cricket World Cup (yes, really), a Neville takes charge of England and it's not looking good for the Rickies.
HOT .
6840
Apparently what people want his agent to tell him is that he's not particularly good, he's too young to earn big money, and he should sign whatever contract Liverpool offer him because he should be grateful just to even be there.
6841
Struck down: 'Dee Dee' Spence, 24, lost her leg in an intentional hit and run by 29-year-old Precious Richardson Coleman, who believed Spence was trying to steal her boyfriend, according to family members .
6842
Left on the bench for Wednesday night’s home clash with Kilmarnock, perhaps uncertain over his place in the starting XI for Sunday’s Scottish Cup semi-final against Inverness, the Celtic striker scored a 19-minute hat-trick to guide his team to a handsome 4-1 victory.
6843
Tests have confirmed the Spain international suffered no fractures after being caught in the face by an elbow from Cheikhou Kouyate in Sunday's Barclays Premier League defeat of West Ham.
6844
Alondra Luna Nunez (pictured) was mistakenly flown to Texas on April 16 after a judge in the western state of Michoacan ruled in favor of a Houston woman named Dorotea Garcia who believed she was her daughter .
6845
Stephanie March is unhappy with the $5,000 a month she has been offered by Bobby Flay as per their prenup, according to TMZ; He filed for divorce on Friday (pictured in June 2013)
6846
God's Peace [sic].'
[sic]'
It doesn't matter how one gives birth.
All that matters is that there is birth of new life and everyone is safe and healthy.'
[sic]'
6847
On Charles and Camilla's seventh wedding anniversary in 2012, the Queen made the Duchess a Dame Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) - a personal seal of approval from the monarch.
6848
He said the jaywalker stopped to rubberneck but left before emergency services reached the scene.
 Onlookers used a shirt as a tourniquet in a desperate attempt to stop the bleeding .
6849
Everton manager Roberto Martinez insists he is not concerned that Romelu Lukaku has joined forces with high-powered agent Mino Raiola ahead of a potential summer of transfer speculation surrounding the striker.
6850
Former IRS official Lois Lerner insisted on her innocence in an opening statement during a 2013 congressional hearing, and then refused to answer lawmakers' questions – a choice that the Obama administration now says was perfectly legal .
6851
Mary discussed the theme of loneliness with the programme and said, 'It's a real and big problem that's gone unnoticed, so I'm glad that it's drawing some attention now.
6852
Size does matter: Fremantle Chocolate in WA have created a 3kg chocolate bunny that will set you back a whopping $275 (left) , while Edible Blooms can deliver loved ones a chocolate tree made up of 85 eggs (right)
6853
Twenty people have been injured after a plane made a crash landing and skidded off the runway at Hiroshima Airport in Japan.
6854
Adam McBurney, who has been capped for the Ireland Under-20s (left), was not at home when a gunman fired multiple bullets through the windows of his property in County Antrim, Northern Ireland (right) on Sunday .
6855
Despite serving two deployments, earning promotions, a valor award and a waiver endorsed by his command, Knapp has been denied re-enlistment by Marine Corps headquarters.
6856
Tupac's track 'All Eyez on me' might have been a more suitable choice for the Los Blancos star, however, as Benzema looks to add to his goal tally of 20 goals in all competitions so far this season.
6857
Unique features Former train station built for Queen Victoria to reach Osborne House; sitting room that Victoria used as a waiting room; main bedroom that used to be a points room.
6858
The Queen had her fingers firmly crossed but luck was not on her side as he annual visit to Newbury’s opening ended with two near-misses.
6859
Sydney-bound winger Joe Burgess scored his first Super League hat-trick as Wigan secured their first away win of the season, but they were made to work hard by struggling Wakefield in an error-strewn game at the Rapid Solicitors Stadium.
6860
A man dubbed 'New Zealand's worst ever drink driver' has been released from prison, despite describing himself as 'a danger to the community'.
6861
Senad Lulic scored a late goal to give Lazio a 1-0 win at Napoli which sent them into the Coppa Italia final and added to Rafael Benitez's problems on Wednesday.
6862
NRL head of football Todd Greenberg revealed that the match review committee would 'look very closely at' their behaviour, noting that contrary conduct and detrimental conduct requirements will 'form part of the review'.
6863
Research by travel website GoEuro found that the British passport is the 11th most expensive of 51 countries included in the study, and it takes a worker earning minimum wage 11 hours to pay it off.
6864
Visit site .
'I owe it to other little black girls' - Dunn revealed in the interview that she perseveres to set a good example for other 'ethnic-looking girls'
6865
Before the FA Cup semi-final Shay Given said he had spoken to Grealish about the issue and suggested he was ready for first-team action.
6866
The Romanian has scored six goals in 17 games for the struggling Spanish side who are rooted to the bottom of La Liga.
6867
They found that rats spent less time in the room showing rodents in pain, than they did in the other compartment showing rats with neutral facial expressions .
6868
Zobkiw was later found guilty of lying to a grand jury about the fatal party.
For the state charges he tampered with evidence by trying to clean up Calo's blood, Hoey faces four years.
6869
A gipsy group who exploited human rights laws to stay in their illegal camp for more than five years have won another legal battle to stay - in a fight that has cost taxpayers £200,000.
6870
The decision comes just one month after the festival made its way through the major cities in the country this year, which was headlined by rapper Drake and DJ Avicii.
6871
Nyia Parler, 41, was taken into custody by authorities in Montgomery County, Maryland overnight Saturday on charges she wheeled her quadriplegic son into woods in Philadelphia then went to visit her boyfriend .
6872
Private investigator Dwayne Powell reportedly told Wisconsin police in 2013 that he was hired by David Miscavige (left), the head of the Church of Scientology, to spy on his elderly father, Ronald (right) after he'd left the church .
6873
While the original video was quickly removed from Instagram, Rihanna later shared a similar video on her own page ,which shows a brief clip of Rihanna holding the supposed tube in her hands .
6874
Bastia president Pierre-Marie Geronimi has called for French League (LFP) president Frederic Thiriez to step down after he did not come down to the pitch to shake the players' hands ahead of Saturday's League Cup final.
6875
Asked earlier this week if Obama's gas-guzzling trip to Florida would undermine his Earth Day message, the White House said it would not and reaffirmed Obama's efforts to reduce pollutants .
6876
This time it didn't seem to bother them at all.'
Mr McDonald said he thought this would be an interesting new way of interacting with the fearsome creatures .
6877
The new 'treat size' Allen's Killer Python measures 21cm instead of 32.5cm and weighs 24g instead of 47g.
Nestle has also reduced the size of Smarties 'fun size' boxes from 20g to 16g .
6878
New York Mets closer Jenrry Mejia has been suspended for 80 games without pay after testing positive for the banned substance stanozolol, Major League Baseball said on Sunday.
6879
Shown is the region around the supermassive black hole at the Milky Way's Galactic Centre - Sagittarius A* - where the X-ray emissions consistent with thousands of white dwarfs were found.
6880
There seems little doubt the man who is fast approaching Real’s all-time goals record will finish his playing days as a central striker and he came into this game with a scoring rate of a goal every 74 minutes and seven goals in his last three matches.
6881
'PM is a passionate Villa fan.
He blamed it on a 'brain fade' like that suffered by Green Party leader Natalie Bennett earlier in the election campaign .
6882
Sharpe (above) said she has not watched the video of the shooting or read any news reports or watched any news coverage of the incident - and doesn't plan to .
6883
David Bowie, who performed an alien in the cult classic film The Man Who Fell To Earth, has composed music for a new stage version in New York.
6884
Roberto Carlos, pictured lifting the Champions League trophy in 2002 (right), has picked his dream team .
How often do defenders win world player of the year?
6885
The Remo midfielder sported his new hairdo during his side's Brazilian Cup clash with Atletico PR on Thursday night.
6886
In a statement, the Finland Ministry of Defence said its surveillance system first alerted its navy to a 'possible underwater target' within territorial waters about midday yesterday.
6887
Firefighters spent 25 minutes trying to free the man from the car using clan lucas cutting equipment and glass stabilisation pack .
6888
Rodney Stover, 48, a convicted sex offender lived in Bellevue Men's Shelter with a group of convicted pedophiles, rapists, and other sex-offenders.
6889
Ashleigh Stumler from Charlotte, North Carolina, thought she was getting dizzy as she hiked on Mount Everest, but a guide soon informed her it was an earthquake.
6890
The short film was created by The Next Family, an organisation that supports diverse families.
The film was created by The Next Family, an organisation that supports diverse families .
6891
Atkinson and assistants Mike Mullarkey and Stephen Child travelled in business class on their Lufthansa flight home while fourth official Darren England was in economy.
6892
Beckford also has offers from clubs in Belgium.
Premier League outfit West Ham are closing in on the signature of Jamaican starlet DeShane Beckford .
6893
In court: Robbie Knievel, pictured in court on Wednesday, was arrested for DUI in Montana after crashing into another car on Tuesday evening and setting off a chain-reaction crash involving two other cars .
6894
Karine Cyr (center) recorded the confrontation on Sunday as she was vacationing with her husband Alexandre Hermenier (left) and their two children .
6895
Saturday's Reclaim Australia rallies across the nation erupted into violence when the group's supporters clashed with anti-racism groups .
6896
The journalist who wrote Rolling Stone's flawed account of a campus rape is set to apologize Sunday night, when the Columbia Journalism School publishes a review of what went wrong with her reporting.
6897
The University of Sydney have been running a 17-week diploma for Year 11 students at Scot's College to skip their year 12 exams and 'buy' their entry into the sandstone university.
6898
Trader purchases 315,800 shares of Altera at $36 a share for a total cost of $11,368,000 plus $110,530 for a $0.35 call option.
6899
'He (Gerrard) is fine.
As a result, Brendan Rodgers became the first Liverpool manager since the 1950s not to win a trophy in his first three years.
6900
Pumpkin seeds also contain omega-3 oils which are great brain food.
Aerobic exercise is good for your heart and health but a lunchtime yoga class will help you stay sharp.
6901
Big-hearted Ipswich Town left back Tyrone Mings has seemingly paid off his mother's debts in his latest act of generosity.
6902
The lowest paid middle class citizen in New York earns $38,246 and the highest paid takes an annual salary of $114,738.
The national average income is $52,250.
6903
Researchers have discovered that people who have breathing problems while asleep are more likely to experience an early decline in memory and other brain functions.
6904
Minchella received a written warning and a fine of 50 per cent of his monthly salary, while team-mates Rob Mulhern, Josh Walters and Ash Handley were fined and issued verbal warnings.
6905
It took hackers just two days and a small collection of everyday household items to bypass the fingerprint sensor (shown) on an Apple iPhone 5S following its launch in 2013 .
6906
Defender Winston Reid would not have signed another long-term contract with West Ham if he did not think the east London club was going places.
6907
The newspaper reported that many of the students believe sitting the exam outside is a novel way to broaden their horizons and encourage them to feel more relaxed.
6908
In February, the Productivity Commission handed down a report which recommended that rebates ‘be conditional on the child being fully immunised, unless care occurs in the child's home'.
6909
His enlightening body of work is described as a celebration of the connection that exists between people and the land.
What an incredible view!
6910
Kaitlyn Granado, 24, a teacher at MacArthur High School in Irving, was first arrested on March 19 for having an inappropriate relationship with a 15-year-old student, and was released on bail.
6911
Ashleigh Sokie was asked to wash One Direction's Niall Horan's clothes and responded by trying on his polo shirt and posting a picture of herself wearing it (left), next to a photo of the star wearing the same item (right)
6912
He was still paying off his $18million in debts in 2014 - despite making $130million from the NFL and millions more from endorsement deals.
6913
A complaint about an unsatisfactory milkshake served at a Louisiana branch of Burger King quickly turned ugly when the employee threatened the unhappy customer with a slap.
6914
Rodgers is also believed to own properties in London, near his former club Reading, and in Northern Ireland .
Rodgers  has a contract with Liverpool until 2018.
6915
Fourth official at Old Trafford, Jonathan Moss, was also sporting a pair of hand warmers whilst introducing both sets of substitutes on Sunday.
6916
A fortunate deflection from an audacious Nigel de Jong overhed kick saw AC Milan salvage a draw and frustrate European hopefuls Sampdoria at the San Siro on Sunday night.
6917
Cafe Tomaselli, Salzburg’s oldest, dating from the 18th Century, right in the centre of the city in Alter Markt.
In the movie it’s draped with Nazi flags.
6918
Mr Hall told Daily Mail Australia Evan had not stopped talking about his 'Australian tooth fairy' ever since this happened.
Cheers for the letter, mate.
6919
Visit site .
Lena Dunham has such GIRLish appeal here with her Tanya Taylor dress and whimsical polka dot Bionda Castana Lama pumps.
Visit site .
6920
Eden Hazard will start for Chelsea against Stoke City on Saturday following a tiring international break .
He added: 'We need six victories and one draw from nine matches.
6921
A Europe-wide survey of 19,000 people revealed the more a country paid to the unemployed or sick the more likely its residents were to want a job. In Norway, which pays the highest benefits in Europe, almost 80% of people wanted a job.
6922
Launching his attack on Labour, Mr Johnson told voters that if they vote Conservative they will get broadband but if they vote Ukip they will get Miliband.
6923
Robert Mccombs told a court in Grand Rapids, Michigan on Wednesday that Steven Carl Day admitted to him and his roommate Roger Musick that he molested a young relative and that he was molesting other young girls.
6924
‘If you take the car to Aston Martin to restore the most expensive bill you will get will be £350,000. ‘Today a fully restored Aston Martin DB5 can be worth between £500,000 to £750,000 and DB4s are slightly behind them.
6925
Mercedes duo Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg found themselves in unusual positions towards the rear of the timesheet at the end of the first practice session for the Bahrain Grand Prix while Kimi Raikkonen posted the fastest time.
6926
Nathalie Croquet a photo-stylist from Paris created a photo series called SPOOF in which she recreated the ads of famous designers and brands .
6927
Syria and Iraq were by far the biggest destinations, with fighters mainly travelling to the region to fight for  IS but also the Al-Nusra Front (pictured, a fighter from the Al-Qaeda linked militant group)
6928
A cat who went missing after escaping a damaged crate after 14-hour flight from Abu Dhabi to New York about last week has been found.
Found!
6929
Stefan Johansen gratefully picked up two individual prizes at the annual Celtic player of the year awards dinner on Sunday night then looked forward to the team clinching the Scottish Premiership title.
6930
A serious knee injury may have cruelly ended Bojan Krkic's season in January but it hasn't stopped the Stoke striker keeping up-to-date with the Premier League.
6931
Marina Lyons, 80, discovered third degree burns on her dog Rosie's back after taking the Lhasa Apso for surgery to remove her spleen due to a suspected tumour .
6932
Marca led with: 'The Oblak Wall', while AS claim that Real could have settled the tie in the first half, '...but Oblak said no.'
6933
Also this week an 101-year-old Arizona woman who'd only just recently become an internet celebrity after appearing in a photo tenderly holding her newborn great-granddaughter died.
6934
Felipe Massa believes he has finally silenced his critics following his storming start to the new Formula One season.
6935
Parents sharing pictures of their 'princesses' playing with 'boys' toys' #caringboys is pics of little boys playing with baby dolls and pushing them around in prams (playing dad)
6936
There is a way any Manchester United team must play – David Moyes found that out to his cost, and earlier this season Van Gaal listened to the fans' loud and clear disapproval of negative football and passes going backwards too often and changed the way they played.
6937
The IRS' overloaded phone system hung up on more than 8 million taxpayers this filing season as the agency cut millions of dollars from taxpayer services .
6938
Finishing immediately behind newly-crowned champions Hearts would spare the Ibrox men the bother of two extra hazardous games in the play-offs, with the teams finishing third and fourth facing off over two legs before taking on the second tier's runners-up.
6939
Barnes had even better success with England's 1990 World Cup song World in Motion by New Order - where his timeless rap helped the tune reach No 1.
6940
Division of labour: Men do just two hours of housework a day while working, which increases to 3.9 after they retire - but it is still far less than the amount carried out by their stay-at-home wives .
6941
While Bell slept on the couch, baby Alice somehow suffocated on the floor nearby.
Bell's initial story was that she had put baby Alice in a crib and found her dead later on.
6942
Snowden fled justice in the US to Hong Kong, then Russia, where he was granted asylum and now lives in a secret location .
6943
Kayli Henley was snapping pictures of six-month-old Taos and his 20-year-old mother, Sierra Sharry, when the young mom asked the photographer if she could make their family complete.
6944
In one of her most expensive ensembles, Lily wore a £30,000 Elie Saab gown with £3,000 Christian Louboutin shoes and platinum ring worth £9,000 by Kwiat  in LA (left) - and a £2,310 gown made by Singapore-born designer Prabal Gurung the very next day (right)
6945
Health minister Dan Poulter saw his weight fell from 105kg to 102.5kg, losing two inches off his 35in waist.
His body fat fell from 24 per cent to 18 per cent .
6946
It is not known whether Lacasse identified himself as an officer in any way other than his dress.
He obtained a license for the gun in 2013 .
6947
'This year has stripped me from the one thing that brought magic to every other aspect of my life,' Mr Pamenter said .
Tribute:
6948
Manchester United and Chelsea will be taking part in the International Champions Cup in the US this summer.
New York Red Bulls .
Paris Saint-
6949
The medical community claim the sedative Phenergan should not be used on children younger than two years old as side effects like respiratory depression, more commonly known as hypoventilation, can be fatal.
6950
Art exhibitions are on the rise such as the Mojo art gallery in Al Quoz district in Duba (above)
 I was lucky enough to stay at the world-famous Jumeirah Burj Al Arab.
6951
Rarely can a headline in a matchday magazine have been so prophetic: on pages 16 and 17 of the United Review, next to a picture of Ander Herrera, screamed the words ‘Right place, right time’.
‘I am very happy, he said.
6952
Also in the team were Hristo Stoichkov who has coached Celta Vigo and Bulgaria among others and Juan Antonio Pizzi, who managed Valencia last season and is now at Leon in Mexico.
6953
Britain’s Got Talent – and its judging panel Simon Cowell, David Walliams, Amanda Holden and Alesha Dixon – is returning on Saturday for its ninth series, with ITV chiefs expecting bumper audience ratings.
6954
The attraction, which features a ball pit, slide and climbing area, can be accessed via the doll's right foot.
Inflatable:
6955
Mr Larson said two minutes later at 1.55am he called police to file the report of the ice chunk falling through his car's windshield, which he believes came from a Delta Airlines A1 aircraft.
6956
Long way out:
Chapple took this image of Sugarloaf Rock while traveling through Western Australia .
Funnily enough, I failed art in school'
6957
Red flares burn while penitents of the Cristo de Viga brotherhood carrying a float with a cross in Jerez de la Frontera, Spain this week .
6958
Eiffel Tower touches Van De Ven!
 Van De Ven (as God) reaching out for the Eiffel Tower (as man) in Michelangelo's famous painting, The Creation of Adam .
6959
Check.
Tartan has never looked so good: Sam Heughan plays Scottish warrior Jamie Fraser in Outlander, the adaptation of Diana Gabaldon's time-travel novels .
6960
Researchers analysed 22 studies, including five from Britain, and found the risks for cigar smokers of dying from oral, oesophageal or lung cancer was at least as bad as for cigarettes.
6961
Police say the car crashed through a fence and into the front bedroom of the Breakwater house after its driver apparently failed to negotiate a roundabout just after 8.30pm on Sunday.
6962
Marissa Holcomb - who is five months pregnant with her fourth child - was fired from Popeyes after $400 was robbed from her till and she refused to pay it back.
6963
Lisa Parkisson, 35, died at Oldham Royal 48 hours after giving birth in April this year, while newborn Thomas Beaty died at the same hospital in June after doctors pushed him back into the womb during birth.
6964
Super-fit Amy Hughes, 26, decided to take on the incredible challenge of running 53 marathons in 53 days last year, to raise money for a friend’s daughter who was diagnosed with a brain tumour.
6965
The price for ivory has risen from between £170 to £541 per kilo in the 1990s, to today's prices of £40,000 to £47,355 per kilo, according to a report by the International Fund for Animal Welfare.
6966
Claims: The story published in November focused on a University of Virginia student named  Jackie who claimed to have been gang raped by seven men at the campus' Phi Kappa Psi fraternity two years ago.
6967
A loud explosion can be heard before plumes of smoke are clearly visible following the failed launch of a rocket in Russia .
6968
The find is significant because it sheds light on early human society in Mesolithic Britain, when people were largely nomadic hunter gatherers before the arrival of farming.
6969
With the score at 1-0 following Jeremy Mathieu's 73rd minute header, tempers flared between Celta striker Fabian Orellana and Sergio Busquets as the Barcelona midfielder attempted to waste time during the closing stages.
6970
The scene in question (pictured), which sees Mufasa murdered by his evil brother Scar leaving Simba fatherless, is generally considered to be one of Disney's most haunting spectacles .
6971
Scotland's oldest inhabited castle also hosts  drumming and singing, egg decorating, storytelling and an Easter bonnet parade. £23 (family); Apr 5; Traquair House, Innerleithen, Peeblesshire; 01896 830323; traquair.co.uk .
6972
Scroll down for video .
It is unknown how the whale died but it does not appear to have any broken bones or show signs of blunt force trauma.
6973
Hiding in plain sight: Moore had worked on a ship for many years before moving to Frankfort and settling in a tidy red-brick home with white columns along a tree-lined residential street .
6974
As the romance between Bruce and Kris blossomed in late 1990 and early 1991, the former star athlete  halted hormone therapy and underwent breast reduction surgery.
6975
Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim put the finishing touches to his squad's preparation on Tuesday as the French club geared up for the second leg of their Champions League quarter-final against Juventus.
6976
The letter’s 20 signatories included Christina Baron, lay member of the General Synod, Barry Sheerman (left) Huddersfield Labour MP since 1979, and Theo Hobson, a theologian and religious commentator (right)
6977
Mr Farage will warn that if the EU agrees to give refuge to migrants from North Africa, it could lead to millions being given passports that allow them to move to Britain .
6978
Boente, from Birmingham, was charged with two counts of threats to kill, one count of harassment, one count of conspiracy to burgle and three counts of possessing a mobile phone while in prison in June last year.
6979
The Deputy Prime Minister said there was a 'very real danger' that Ukip and Northern Ireland's DUP could hold Mr Cameron to 'ransom' in the event of a second hung Parliament.
6980
The 56-year-old, who describes herself as a 'closet comedian', has been lambasted for her first-ever stand-up routine while taking over The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Thursday.
Visit site .
6981
Cesar Azpilicueta is counting down the games until Chelsea win the Barclays Premier League title, and he thinks they have shown their strength by staying top of the table since 'day one'.
6982
Meanwhile, his older brother, Senator Harry Reid, who recently suffered an accident while exercising, said in a video message last week he would not seek re-election next year, and threw his weight behind New York Senator Chuck Schumer to replace him when he leaves office.
6983
TV Host Jeannette Kaplun ‏wrote: 'So sad that the world has lost a wonderful, kind and brilliant human being, Dr. Frederic Brandt' Abravanel said that sources told her Dr Brandt was 'devastated' over comparisons to the enthusiastic doctor on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt .
6984
Ms Jackson and Mr Ray were neighbours in this quiet cul-de-sac in Hull .
Ms Jackson says her year of living next door to Mr Ray was the worst of her life .
6985
Theobald, a known scholar of Shakespeare, mounted his play at Drury Lane Theatre in London on December 13, 1727, claiming that it was a re-working of an original by the Bard and that he had three original texts.
6986
He said: 'I have never heard a cat meow like that in my life.
Sinbad, the ginger tabby cat, started his epic journey in Alexandria port in Egypt (pictured) on March 8 .
6987
Tests confirmed he was profoundly death in his left ear and only able to hear 75 decibels in his right, but doctors decided to fit him with hearing aids as soon as possible .
6988
Kincannon, who refers to himself as the 'honey badger of American politics', has gained a reputation on Twitter for sending inflammatory tweets that have regularly left him open to accusations of racism and sexism .
6989
Tim Sherwood has confirmed he will start Shay Given against Liverpool in the FA Cup semi-final at Wembley on Sunday, a day before the Irishman turns 39.
6990
The soon-to-be-opened island also hopes to host historical, nature and stargazing exhibitions in the future.
6991
However, Sen. Jason Smalley has revealed he rewrote the bill to eliminate that language and allow private businesses to establish their own policies regarding discrimination.
6992
An Arizona woman similarly got an early Easter surprise when she saw the image of Jesus Christ in her dental x-rays during a check-up last month .
6993
The 21-year-old took his tally to 20 on Saturday PSV Eindhoven beat Heerenveen 4-1 to win the Dutch championship on Saturday for the first time in seven seasons.
6994
The Ibrox side recovered from their defeat against Queen of the South as two goals from Nicky Law and one each from Nicky Clark and Haris Vuckic swamped Raith Rovers in a 4-0 victory.
6995
Elsewhere, Ji So-yun of Chelsea Ladies won the PFA Women's Player of the Year, while Leah Williamson of Arsenal Ladies won the PFA Women's Young Player of the Year.
6996
Dr Ivan Vince, an expert in landfill gases, said last night that it was possible the cyanide gas had leached from a nearby landfill site (pictured)
6997
England full back Mike Brown is still showing signs of concussion and may not play again until the World Cup warm-up matches in August.
Mar 14:
6998
The Mediterranean-style seven-bedroom, 18-bathroom property was built in 1918 and has 420 feet of oceanfront access, as well as a tennis court, movie theater, swimming pool and gym.
6999
So a group called Instruments designed a product called Snooze, shown, an alarm clock which connects with your phone and silences any notifications to ensure a good night’s sleep .
7000
England's exiled record run-scorer made 170 off 149 balls against MCC Universities Oxford at The Parks on Sunday, at the start of Surrey's three-day fixture.
7001
Kenny Miller fears Rangers' promotion bid could be derailed by the Ibrox side's rollercoaster run of form.
'Might this inconsistency come back to haunt us in the play-offs?
7002
Burnley manager Sean Dyche, aka The Ginger Mourinho, insists he is enjoying life at Turf Moor .
'I think it's quite obvious, I am enjoying the challenge here.
7003
Leonardo Jardim says Monaco's performance in the Champions League shows you don't need to buy big .
'Right now, you could say that Monaco's coach is very proud of his players.
7004
A measure proposed to the Oregon legislature would require all new or replacement dryers to operate at a noise level no louder than 84 decibels, about as loud as a school cafeteria.
7005
The final ten contenders for Star In ABra feature in the powerful new image recreating the notorious VS advert .
7006
Ian Bell has won five trophies with Warwickshire, including the County Championship in 2004 and 2012 .
Bell has won five trophies with Warwickshire, including the County Championship in 2004 and 2012, the B&H Cup in 2002, the Clydesdale Bank 40 in 2010 and most recently the NatWest T20 Blast at Edgbaston last season.
He has scored 48 centuries in 246 first-class matches.
7007
20 September Hull (h) 2-2 (2 goals) 4 October Swansea (a) 2-2 (2 goals) 2 December Burnley (a) 1-1 (1 goal) 6 December Chelsea (h) 2-1 (2 goals) 26 December Man Utd (a) 1-3 (1 goal) 28 December Everton (h) 3-2 (1 goal)
7008
Nicola Sturgeon is most definitely the most dangerous woman in Britain.
Nicola Sturgeon (left in 2001; right in 2015) is most definitely the most dangerous woman in Britain.
7009
Specialist Paddy Morar says it is fairly common to use magnets to attach prosthetic ears, but was the first time they had used them to attach a nose .
7010
Ranette Afonso, 42 (right), is set to marry Marko Conte, 30 (left), in October after they met thanks to a  car accident in August 2013 .
7011
Tom Henderson, Centre Point's mayor, said the unknown gunman had been attempting to shoot the aggressive dog, but his bullets instead hit Danel and the second man.
7012
Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho could be planning a summer swoop for Atletico Madrid midfielder Koke (above) Spanish newspaper AS report that Mourinho could offer Filipe Luis in a part-exchange deal this summer .
7013
She won the World Cross Country Championships and the London Marathon and finally took gold medals on the track at the Commonwealth Games and then the European Championships.
7014
'The fact that Rebels MC members remain members despite criminal convictions including convictions obtained whilst members of the OMCG contradicts Mr Vella's assertions the Rebels MC does not condone criminal activity by its members, and allow them to remain members.
7015
In 2007 she was jailed for six months for fraud, and in 2011 she was again convicted of fraud but spared jail after a court heard she had stolen money from neighbour using credit cards.
7016
Cardiff Crown Court heard that Stephen Phillips, left, Christopher Evans, centre, and Michael Stokes, right, are all accused of taking bundles of cash worth £30,000 from the home of a suspected criminal .
7017
Caines and his wife Linda, who were riding with the group in a tandem kayak, said that within 10 minutes of the wind picking up they couldn't see anyone else in their group .
7018
Tim Bresnan is keen to give England's selectors no choice but to pick him with wickets and runs for Yorkshire .
Bresnan says: 'The only thing I can do is get runs and take wickets for Yorkshire'
7019
The man retaliates by setting the bouncer on fire, police in Port St Lucie, Miami, said .
But he returned minutes later with a cup of gasoline and threw it on the bouncer.
7020
A handful of Manchester City fans were ejected from Old Trafford for allegedly mocking the Munich Air Disaster during Sunday's 4-2 derby defeat by Manchester United.
7021
Responding officers found the couple inside their master bedroom at their home on Beaty Street in Fort Worth, Texas, where Martin was pronounced dead from a gunshot wound to the head.
7022
The relationship between the toddler and Whittington has not yet been revealed by police but the owner of Vest Market Harry Dindral said the man was the boy's father and said that he's seen them in the store together before.
7023
Scroll down for video .
Today the town is considered to be the most famous abandoned location in Italy and folklore suggests that the area is haunted.
7024
North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey (left), Police Chief Eddie Driggers (center) and Sharpton 'discussed the Scott shooting' on Sunday before the reverend spoke at Charity Missionary Baptist Church in South Carolina .
7025
In a video posted on April 20 by the California Innocence Project, which has been working to free Hanline since 1999, he is seen on the day he was released at the counter of a Carl's Jr asking for a hamburger 'they show on TV with the bacon on it'.
7026
Flames erupted about 1 p.m. at the site located near the intersection of Weld County Road 47 and Weld County Road 64, just northeast of the Greeley Airport in Colorado .
7027
Duplan sees the funny side of mishap and laughs with the bench during Utrecht's 1-1 draw with Ajax .
7028
He had a sensational first season in Spain winning four trophies and scoring in the Copa del Rey, Champions League and World Club Cup finals.
7029
Steel structures for the new Main Stand at Anfield are now taller than the existing structure .
7030
From the same litter, the two cubs – one black, the other spotty – are the fifth brood of mother and father Agnes and Rock.
7031
Lord Janner sent a ‘thank you’ Christmas card to a detective after learning he would escape child sex abuse charges, it emerged yesterday .
7032
Millions of bees:
Rush to save the bees:
Bee keepers stand next to a semi-truck that rolled on Friday morning releasing millions of bees .
Foam:
7033
Liam Bell, 19 (left), from Rowley Regis was jailed for six years and six months while Trea Richardson, 22 (right) from Hansowrth, was sentened to a four-year jail term .
7034
In the study, the researchers found that the temperature of the forehead and to a lesser extent, the nose, is the best indication of a person’s drunken state and built an algorithm to recognise intoxication with 90% accuracy.
7035
Up in smoke: Volcano Calbuco, in southern Chile, has erupted forcing 1,500 residents from Ensenada, about 10 miles away,  to flee their homes (pictured, a view of the eruption from Puerto Montt, a small city around 20 miles from the volcano)
7036
Dougie Freedman is on the verge of agreeing a new two-year deal to remain at Nottingham Forest.
Dougie Freedman is set to sign a new deal at Nottingham Forest .
7037
The Tories were accused of giving 'no detail' about their deficit reduction plan, which relies on £30billion of cuts, while Labour has left the door open to borrowing an extra £26billion-a-year.
7038
The Channel 4 programme, hosted by actor Philip Glenister and car designer Ant Anstead, celebrates the duo's love affair with classic cars.
7039
A new analysis of Finnish education suggests pupil aptitude has actually declined since the country embraced fashionable teaching methods (file picture)
7040
Scroll down for video .
NYPD officers shot dead a suspect as he fled from the scene of a crime (above) and opened fire Wednesday night .
7041
'He saw this as a very good move for him and I made it quite clear that it's not as if I don't want him - it's just because I think it's good for his development.
7042
The 25-year-old striker came off after 58 minutes of Saturday's 1-1 draw at home to Stoke with a thigh strain.
7043
The adverts created for the biggest airlines of the day, including many which no longer exist, offer a glimpse at how air travel, advertising and society changed over the 30-year period covered in the book.
7044
The popular tourist site was pilloried in this month's issue of National Geographic magazine as having 'all the historical character of an office lobby' (April 2013 file photo)
7045
Saints have failed to score in five of their last nine league matches, and Koeman could be poised to recall Senegalese striker Sadio Mane to the starting 11.
7046
Despite being no more than two months old, the elephant seal pup is still thought to have weighed around 200lbs, and Ms Fritz had a struggle sitting upright.
7047
'Today, the biomass is booming and the ecosystem is returning to a healthy state which is how we managed to witness this incredible sight,' Jeff explained .
7048
Haye was reportedly taken to Bur Dubai police station, which has a department for bounced cheque suspects, and was released the same day .
7049
Brendan Rodgers has urged Liverpool to turn Wembley back into 'Anfield South' and believes an FA Cup semi-final victory over Aston Villa on Sunday would help his players develop a stronger winning mentality.
7050
Under pressure Bayern Munich manager Pep Guardiola has revealed that 'only the treble is enough' for his team as they attempt to overturn their 3-1 deficit against Porto in the Champions League.
7051
Ryanair steward Fernando Miguel Andrade Viseu begged Adam Galloway not to report him to police when he replied to a message warning him that he could prove that he was selling stolen goods .
7052
Obese patients could be denied varicose vein treatment, hip and knee replacement, pictured, and breast reduction surgery, while smokers could be banned from having IVF on the NHS .
7053
Sherrell Dillion from Benefits Street has been given a place in the Top Model of Colour competition, however, her good news is marred by the fact that she is currently homeless .
7054
Apple cider is used in several of the recipes, in a toner for acne-prone skin and also in a shampoo - the acidic nature of the ingredient working as a great cleansing agent.
7055
The duckling begins to peck away at the lamb's face (left) as a group of adult ducks waddle past (right) The lamb’s owner said: ‘What could be mistaken as pecking is actually a heartwarming sign of trust and friendship.
7056
We were in complete shock when we heard.’
Relatives: Cousins Karen and Colin Cosheril were patients of the Alderney family doctor when they died.
7057
The divisive batsman has re-signed for Surrey this summer in an attempt to win an unlikely England recall, having been thrown an apparent lifeline by incoming ECB chairman Colin Graves.
7058
'I couldn’t believe some of the reactions from people on Twitter,' he told The Mirror.
'I had death threats, one person said that the next time I come out in Manchester I’m dead.'
7059
After five customers reported having 'thermal incidents', Holden issued a stop delivery notice to car dealers and urged owners of the Holden Colorado- SUV or ute- to have their cars checked out immediately.
7060
Earlier this year UKIP leader Nigel Farage sparked controversy by claiming that foreign GPs should not be working on the NHS as they didn’t speak good enough English .
7061
Caught on camera: This is the terrifying moment an intoxicated motorist drives the wrong way on a highway and plows into oncoming traffic in an apparent suicide attempt .
7062
Threatened: Sudan is the target of poachers looking to sell rhino horn which can make up to £47,000 a kilo .
ENV runs a hotline for information about rhino horn use and a database.
7063
Tory sources said it remains a 'key seat' and Mrs Cameron was keen to support Tory Kelly Tolhurst who is a 'great local candidate'.
7064
The Pacific Ocean is narrowing at a few centimetres per year, which will ultimately cause America to collide with Eurasia, while Australia is also moving towards Asia by 2.8 inches (7cm) a year and will join Amasia.
7065
Despite the journals detailing how she planned to kill the children, she said in the jailhouse interview that she did not wake up that day thinking she would kill them.
7066
And 24 years ago today, he scored what was arguably the finest goal of his career.
Paul Gascoigne hits the 35-yard free-kick that would cement his place in Tottenham legend .
7067
The unidentified teenager is a victim and was released on Monday from juvenile detention into the custody of county child protective services, said Clark County District Attorney Steve Wolfson.
7068
Pally said 'So yes, we made mistakes, as many organizations of our size do, but we are acting quickly to remedy them, and have taken steps to ensure they don't happen in the future'.
7069
Former QPR manager Harry Redknapp says that Tottenham have not made any progress under Mauricio Pochettino this season, insisting he has been rescued by the kids.
7070
It hit the property with such force that the car, which has its front end completely destroyed int he crash, became stuck in the wall.
7071
All Saints Church in Wolverhampton, pictured, re-scheduled the service, which marks the start of Easter celebrations, so that vulnerable women can attend their regular Thursday sessions tomorrow .
7072
While the map focuses on the US, it also has a small amount of data for the UK, with sentences such as 'yer lugs needs washed' used in Scotland (left) and 'Ne mon nule don hum no good', in Aylesbury.
7073
She had asked him how he was and he told her: 'I am not feeling well.'
It's believed that the man is from Seymour in Victoria and was holidaying at the Bali resort .
7074
Klopp is leaving Borussia Dortmund after seven seasons in which he has won two Bundesliga titles, the German Cup and reached the Champions League final, in 2013 at Wembley.
7075
A New Jersey father has claimed as part of a custody battle that his ex-wife 'abused her parental discretion' by taking their daughter to Pink's December 2013 concert at the Prudential Center in Newark (pictured).
7076
Ashley Pegram, a 28-year-old mother-of-three, left her Summerville, South Carolina home for a date with a man she had met on messaging service Kik on the evening of April 3.
7077
Madison Square Garden, New York .
Ali and Frazier at Madison Square Garden, New York, on March 8, 1971, was the second 'Fight of the Century'
7078
Mourners in Malta (pictured) and Italy have held candle-lit vigils for the 900 people who died when a migrant ship capsized off Libya's coast this weekend .
7079
A little girl named Anya Brodie asked Michelle Obama her age and when Obama told her she was 51-years-old the little girl just couldn't believe it .
7080
Buttler makes the catch from Anderson's bowling to dismiss Smith for 11 and leave West Indies 19 for one .
We are all still waiting.
7081
The Millers were sanctioned by the Football League last week as they played Derby defender Farrend Rawson in their 1-0 win over Brighton on Easter Monday after his youth loan had expired and the paperwork over an extension was not dealt with correctly.
7082
The baby elephant can be seen walking alongside its herd, which travel in a single file line .
Whipsnade Zoo opened in 1931 and was originally known as Whipsnade Wild Animal Park.
7083
Stephanie Fragoso was cited on Wednesday, April Fools' Day, after she was stopped in Las Vegas by a Nevada Highway Patrol (NHP) trooper.
7084
Mr Rose (pictured with Jimmy White, left, and Nigel Farage, right) branded police involvement as 'absolutely ridiculous', adding that voters in the marginal seat were unlikely to 'change their mind for a sausage roll'
7085
It is the historic site where King John sealed the Magna Carta to establish the rule of law.
The former IT worker said: ‘Our aim here has always been to build a sustainable community.’
7086
She said she didn’t think it was a big issue, saying: ‘Yes it may affect customers who were shopping in the store but it shouldn’t be too much of a problem.’
7087
Lies on lies: Williams, pictured above during his last Nightly News broadcast before being suspended, embellished at least 11 different reports, an internal investigation has reportedly found .
7088
PROMISE:
PROMISE:
Duchy Originals Scottish Heather Honey has a thick, velvety, sugary texture and a strong but fabulous taste .
PROMISE:
4/5 .
PROMISE: Clear Welsh honey with a gentle fruity flavour.
4/5 .
PROMISE: A dark, runny honey with a rich, nutty taste and smoky aromas.
7089
The west London club also felt the squeeze of the Six Nations and they must win at the AJ Bell Stadium to keep alive their slim hopes of Champions Cup qualification.
PREDICTION: Home win.
7090
Fellow passengers sat stunned as the yobs - some of whom were shirtless - sung and swore their way from Glasgow to Alicante on a Jet2 flight last Friday morning.
7091
While United Airlines has 30 inches of space, Gulf Air economy seats have between 29 and 32 inches, Air Asia offers 29 inches and Spirit Airlines offers just 28 inches.
7092
'Presenting your home with a fresh coat of paint, new carpet or even a good tidy can potentially add many thousands of dollars to your home's value,' she said.
7093
Fabregas joined Arsenal as a teenager (left) before returning to the Premier League with Chelsea (right) Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger speaks to a young Fabregas after snatching him away from Barcelona in 2004 .
7094
It is thought the lion crossed two freeways to get to his home in Griffith Park, but it is not known how long he has been living in the crawl space in the Los Feliz hills .
7095
Confused locals watched the mysterious cloud hover ominously over Shortandy for a quarter of an hour on Saturday morning before it vanished as quickly as it appeared.
7096
But you may be surprised to know that an expired passport of Paul Parker - most famous for playing right back for Manchester United and England during the nineties - was listed on eBay for an eye-watering £5,000.
7097
Kane scored just 79 seconds into his England debut after coming off the bench to head home during last month's 4-0 win over Lithuania at Wembley.
7098
'The family were all enjoying their last ski run over the small jumps and bumps at the side of the slope together, when Carwyn's sister lost her ski on a jump and at this point Carwyn skied ahead,' it said.
7099
The average Briton enjoys 884 cups of tea each year – or enough to fill two bathtubs, a survey has found.
7100
On March 15, two days before baby Riley died, his mother Catherine posted a devastating photo of her son wrapped up in a blanket in his hospital bed urging people to get themselves and their children immunised against whooping cough.
7101
With the doors open, the dining room is extended out into the garden - filling the house with light and making the home even more spacious .
7102
But, while some of his claims were overstated, the latest official figures show that more than half of those newly diagnosed with HIV in Britain – where their country of origin is known – were born overseas.
7103
Doctors told Cara Newton, 32, from Fleet, Hampshire, she had a zero per cent chance of conceiving naturally after being diagnosed with bone cancer in 2009.
7104
Tim Howard is adamant the Europa League is not to blame for Everton's poor season in the Premier League .
Booked: Taylor, Emnes, Williams.
7105
Since he arrived at the retreat as a 3-week-old cub, Kibulu has slept most nights in director Donna's bed with 'Teddy' Zambi Wildlife Retreat's Donna Wilson with Kibulu, the orphaned nine-month-old African lion who has shared her bed since he arrived as a three-week-old cub .
7106
This time, though, Khan wants the non-title bout at the Barclays Center as he said: 'We're looking at fighting in New York, I think New York's a great venue for me.
7107
Atatürk, the 19th Division commander, famously told his men: "I am not ordering you to attack.
During the time before we die other forces and commanders will take our place."
7108
A 15-year-old boy has been arrested for allegedly robbing, beating and sexually assaulting a woman on a Chicago train after his mother recognized his face on released surveillance images and turned him in to police.
7109
Hannah Campbell, pictured with her daughters Milly (left) and Lexi-River (right), defied the odds to have a miracle baby after shrapnel damaged her womb from a blast in Basra .
7110
Last April, an IPCC report highlighted a number of barriers to using CCS, including fatal CO2 leaks, transport issues and operational risks, such as seismic tremors.
7111
The 45-year-old beat Mayweather in the featherweight division semi-finals at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, but his life today couldn't be any further apart from the American's.
7112
La-Sonya Mitchell-Clark (left) of Youngstown, Ohio, found out her birth mother was Francine Simmons (right) after the Ohio Department of Heath released birth records for people born between January 1, 1964, and September 18, 1996, last month .
7113
The 4,000 metre runway has to be continually painted with yellow crosses, so pilots flying over the airport will know they cannot land there .
In October 2011, it saw its final commercial flight, by Vueling.
7114
Using Western-style crop-spraying equipment, a group of young men are seen in the fields happily picking cabbages while young boys load them on to the back of a lorry.
7115
More recently, at the 2014 World Cup with Holland, Van Gaal had notable success with 20-year-old Memphis Depay, who was named on the three-man shortlist for the best young player at the tournament.
7116
'Falcao is a Monaco player on loan at Manchester United and his wages are substantial and beyond our means,' Marotta told La Gazzetta dello Sport.
7117
A group of 15 Muslim men, from the Ivory Coast, Senegal, Mali and Guinea Bissau, have now been arrested on suspicion of 'multiple aggravated murder motivated by religious hate'  (not pictured)
7118
Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt.
7119
With an $8.99 per month fee for its service, Netflix customers would only have to pay an extra approximate 90c while song downloaders would pay an additional 22c for $2.19 track on iTunes .
7120
Former Chelsea winger Florent Malouda has picked his #one2eleven stars he played alongside throughout his career on Sky Sports' Fantasy Football Club.
7121
He was going far too fast and didn’t slow down.
‘Then an American lady, who witnessed everything, walked over and said to him, “You were going far too fast.
7122
George Ford, Dave Attwood, Jonathan Joseph and Anthony Watson all return to the scene of the 19-9 defeat by Ireland which halted another Grand Slam crusade, and their club’s head coach feels that setback could prove beneficial in their Champions Cup quarter-final.
7123
Labour’s John Mann said those who falsified documents could be guilty of fraud or forgery.
Labour's John Mann said those who falsified documents could be guilty of fraud or forgery .
7124
Speaking at the White House Rose Garden, Mr Obama said that 'if Iran cheats, the world will know it'
Obama insisted that: 'If Iran cheats, the world will know it'.
7125
Lawyers for both Bob McDonnell and his wife argued in separate briefs that the favors he did for Williams did not amount to 'official acts' covered by federal bribery law .
7126
Manchester City are rivalling Manchester United and Arsenal for Valenciennes teenage defender Dayot Upamecano.
7127
Colombia striker Falcao joined United on a one-year loan deal in September but has failed to shine during his time at Old Trafford - scoring just four goals in 25 appearances for the Manchester club this season.
7128
A federal judge has ordered the Internal Revenue Service to hand over a list of the 298 tea party organizations that it targeted with broad and often intrusive questions when they applied for nonprofit tax-exempt status.
7129
Making an attempt to scare them away – in an entirely tongue-in-cheek way – the man is forced to retreat as one makes a lunge at him and another jumps into the back of the truck.
7130
There is also a 2,000-square-foot caretaker's house, with one bedroom and one-and-a-half bathrooms, while a separate barn also houses a loft and a bathroom.
7131
Cahill has won four cups with the Stamford Bridge outfit since joining in January 2012, including the Champions League, but the England defender believes league glory would be his most testing achievement yet.
7132
'A Starter Marriage is a short-term contract for couples to 'try on' the institution to see if it fits – without bringing children into the mix – before jumping into a life-long contract,' Mrs Pease Gadoua said.
7133
The study also found that nut spreads are a popular choice for breakfast loving kids, with Aussie kids eating  spreads 6.7 times a week.
7134
A new study shows underweight people are a third more likely to be diagnosed with diseases such as Alzheimer's than those of a healthy weight (file photo)
7135
Group 20, 11:25am: Ben Martin, Robert Streb, Cameron Tringale .
Round 2 .
Group 3, 8:07am: Ben Martin, Robert Streb, Cameron Tringale .
7136
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott thrilled players at a Sydney Australian Rules football club function by skolling a beer.
Scroll down for video .
7137
Joly, who is also a travel writer, shone with a flying leap off race leaders Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing's boat, skippered by his compatriot, Ian Walker.
7138
Dina, who reportedly enjoys reading poetry and playing rock guitar, is one of two children from the relationship with Nemtsov and Odintsova, the other being her 20-year-old brother Anton.
7139
Warning: MI5 has issued an alert over the threat posed by rogue workers in Britain’s nuclear, transport and public services after co-pilot Andreas Lubitz killed 150 people in the Alps plane crash disaster .
7140
A trim 120-pound mother-of-four set a new world record this weekend and earned $6,000 in prize money after downing three 72-ounce steak dinners in just 20 minutes.
7141
Philadelphia-based artist and journalist Alison Nastasi has collated a collection of intimate portraits featuring well-known artists with their furry friends.
7142
Belgium rose to its highest-ever spot at No 3 in the rankings, which are still led by World Cup winner Germany followed by Argentina.
Spain (11)
7143
Last Saturday Ms Scott's father Robert (left), mother Merrilyn (centre) and sister Robyn (right) were among those gathered at a memorial service for her at Mountford Park, Leeton .
7144
Bali Nine ringleaders Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan will today find out if their last-ditch legal appeal against their death row sentence will be allowed to proceed.
7145
Manchester United: De Gea 6.5, Valencia 6, Smalling 6.5, McNair 6.5, Shaw 7 (Blackett 80), Rooney 6, Mata 5 (Januzaj 5, 70), Ander Herrera 7.5, Fellaini 6.5, Young (Di Maria 6, 70), Falcao 4 .
7146
Tesco chairman John Allan claimed David Cameron's decision to promise an in-out referendum before knowing what powers can be clawed back from Brussels means the cart is very firmly before the horse'
7147
Carla Suarez Navarro advanced to the final of the Miami Open after topping Andrea Petkovic 6-3, 6-3 in a semi-final  on Thursday.
7148
But The Public and Commercial Services union (PCS) said staff are also asked to perform extra duties for free, such as leading paid-for tours, carrying out first aid and speaking foreign languages to overseas visitors.
7149
As the MWC 480 system evolves it is likely that organic molecules locked away in comets and other icy bodies will be ferried closer to the star where conditions may be suitable for life, the scientists believe.
7150
Phylise Davis-Bowens, 42, who attended Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, Florida, is suing her former college because she was not allowed to try out for the 14 Karat Gold dancers in 2009 .
7151
The number of allergy sufferers is soaring and almost half of those with severe allergies live in daily fear of suffering a potentially fatal reaction.
7152
A trespasser carrying a suspicious package jumped over the White House railings last night - the latest in a string of embarrassing security breaches to hit the US capital.
7153
Harry Kane scored his 30th goal in all competitions for Tottenham this season on Sunday and the PFA Player of the Year nominee tops this week's EA Sports' Performance Index after another intriguing round of Premier League action.
7154
Some 82 per cent of 3,500 NASUWT members polled were verbally abused by pupils in the last 12 months, up from 52 per cent in the union’s survey last year.
7155
He suddenly produced what appeared to be an imitation machine gun from a black bag and demanded the money from the till.
7156
They examined some 200 bead-type objects found at more than 400 European sites over a 3,000-year period, tracing the adoption of ornaments linked to farming populations in order to explain the patterns of transition from foraging and hunting to farming.
7157
A 16-year-old boy who was seized in an anti-terror operation after he tried to buy deadly poison on the internet has been spared jail after the court heard he wanted to commit suicide.
7158
However Swain, who has previously done long swims along the Hudson River in New York and the Columbia in Washington, wanted to call attention to the slow clean up of the canal and urge for it to be accelerated.
7159
Former Saturday Night Live cast member Gary Kroeger announced Tuesday that he is running for Congress in Iowa .
Kroeger was a cast member on SNL from 1982 to 1985.
7160
The Red Cross has warned of a 'catastrophic' situation in main southern city Aden where militia loyal to fugitive President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi have been holding out against Houthi Shiite rebels and their allies within the security forces.
7161
January 1952: First of 248 Test wickets and 2,201 Test runs .
December 1963: In his 60th Test, the first to 2,000 Test runs & 200 wickets .
7162
'Because we had to stretch out our arm to take the selfie, it was still a challenge getting the surrounding sea life and the photographer in the shot.
7163
Stephen Akers-Belcher said he needed time off for compassionate reasons - but was pictured the same day aboard HMS Warrior .
7164
Researchers in North Carolina claim that zapping the brain with a mild electric current can boost creativity by nearly eight per cent.
7165
In her cover interview for the June issue ofGood Housekeeping, the mother-of-two talks about how it was therapy that saved her after she lost one child and nearly died after having another.
7166
Michelle said that Ruben was so mature it was 'unbelievable', saying he just kept calm and told her to breathe, while her partner Ben was helping to deliver the baby .
7167
The two families had been 'neighbours at war' since the Colemans moved in next door to the Williams family on St Catherine’s Road, Chingford, in 2007.
7168
Stepping into the breach: The party's deputy chairman Suzanne Evans (pictured right) said she would step in as leader if Mr Farage (left) is forced to pull out due to ill health.
7169
Glen, 35, had always wanted to have children and decided to store sperm shortly before his testicular cancer treatment at the age of 20 made him infertile.
7170
A 'blokey' joke book on sale at River Island containing an offensive joke about domestic violence has caused a Twitter storm prompting the high street brand to withdraw it from shelves.
7171
Officials in Wuhan, the capital city of central China’s Hubei Province, have accused tourists of damaging a statue of the country's first leader and his wife by fondling the woman's exposed breast .
7172
The men are using their new-found platform to speak out in a bid to break the 'shame' around body image and insecurity amongst men .
7173
Crystal Palace winger Yannick Bolasie was the hero at the Stadium of Light having scored a hat-trick for the Eagles against Sunderland .
7174
Martin Odegaard takes part in the warm-up ahead of Real Madrid's clash with Almeria at the Bernabeu .
The Norway international shows off some of his skills during the warm-up .
7175
Veteran Leeds prop Kylie Leuluai is facing the prospect of another six weeks on the sidelines after being told he needs shoulder surgery.
7176
At London's High Court today, Judge Michael Yelton approved the £7.3 million settlement, to be paid by the NHS Litigation Authority following a 23-year battle .
7177
'I'm not racist,' one of the notes allegedly said, 'but I can see how someone can become [sic] hating [expletive].
There were no [expletive] in W.L. until u came.'
7178
“Friends what do you expect from presstitutes….” Gen. Singh tweeted last night in response to a channel quoting him saying that he found the evacuation assignment less exciting than his recent visit to the Pakistan High Commission on the occasion of Pakistan's national day.
7179
'It is still active.
'Seeing the contrast of the black and red lava to the white snow was like gold to my eyes, and to my camera,' Fredrik said .
7180
On Friday morning, Dana Dor, her husband Adi, and their boys, Aidan and Brandon, headed from their Lake Ronkonkoma home  to meet Chester.
7181
A man walks past the nightclub where Miss Buckley was last seen (left) and police behind the door of a flat at Dorchester Avenue (right), where she reportedly went back to after leaving the club .
7182
He hopes to become a neurosurgeon.
Another high school student, Harold Ekeh of Long Island, was also accepted into all eight Ivy League schools.
7183
Happy Cloud also said that she believes her Native American heritage has been undermined by Facebook's discriminatory policies.
7184
Transgender teen Chase Culpepper, 17, who was born male but identifies as female, was told by DMV officials that she had to remove make-up (left) for her license photo last year (after taking off make-up right).
7185
'Of course other teams are watching us, but we have to watch ourselves this season, our own games, focus on that and then we will see where it ends .
7186
Female fans of BBC One's Cornish period drama Poldark are complaining after dashing actor Aidan Turner kept his shirt on in last night's penultimate episode.
7187
Jack Wilshere, Mikel Arteta and Abou Diaby are set to feature for Arsenal Under 21s on Tuesday night as they continue their respective recoveries from injury.
7188
All three planets in the system orbit the star, HD 7924, at a distance closer than Mercury orbits the sun, completing their orbits in just 5, 15 and 24 days.
7189
The New York Daily News reported Iona's stepson Costello Jr, 45, was visiting Hamptons Bay, New York, at the time, and relatives said he has never got on with the family.
7190
The USA have unveiled their new kits for the women's soccer team ahead of the World Cup hosted by Canada in June.
So we're actually not changing the history.
7191
Giles Barnes headed home Brad Davis' free kick in the 15th minute, ending Houston's 274-minute scoring drought, as the Dynamo beat the Montreal Impact 3-0.
7192
A new TNS survey shows the SNP has almost doubled its lead over Labour in a month, with 52 per cent now backing Ms Sturgeon with only 24 per cent of Scots planning to vote for Mr Miliband.
7193
In such instances, the BBC is lucky to retain the services of Gary Lineker, the best presenter of live football on TV.
7194
Mr Cameron insisted he was not nervous and was 'relishing' the prospect of the two-hour debate in the ITV studios at Salford's MediaCityUK (pictured) Ed Miliband arrives for a Q&A session at Bury Town Hall  ahead of the televised Leaders debate in Manchester tonight .
7195
The explosion on a Pacific Gas & Electric Co. pipe carrying natural gas happened while an equipment operator and a group of county jail inmates were expanding a road alongside Highway 99, according to Fresno County Sheriff Margaret Mims.
7196
Rousey, the UFC’s bantamweight champion, appears in the latest movie in the franchise to be released on April 3 in the UK with her MMA skills used to full effect.
7197
Best friends:
Fast friends:
McDonald told ABC that Layka adapted to civilian life quickly and that she became fast friends with his son Liam.
7198
Barrientos' first marriage took place in 1999 to Mohamed Gerbril, followed by a 2001 marriage to Ahmed Allam, then a second 2001 marriage to Habibur Rahman, the Post reported.
7199
The TSA got to keep $675,000 in spare change dropped by travellers at airport security last year.
7200
However, when recipients opened the enclosed link, philly.com reports that they were directed to a video of 'a woman engaging in a sexually explicit act'.
7201
’ As a result, only a handful of traditional flowers still grow in English country gardens, with the average one usually containing a mere four species – daffodils, crocuses, roses and tulips (file image)
7202
Myleene Klass posted this adorable snap on Instagram of her daughters Ava (right), 8,  and Hero (left), 4, setting off on an Easter egg hunt around the garden in matching outfits and cute bunny ear headbands .
7203
New Breed Jiu-Jitsu, the Portland, Oregon, martial arts gym (pictured) that Kaneshiro owned, is now closed .
An investigation into Kaneshiro's death is ongoing.
7204
Father-of-two Shiraz Nawaz said he felt lucky to be alive after the 15-foot flames shot out of the manhole just seconds after he had walked over it in a busy street in the West Midlands.
7205
Anthony Bethell and St John's College, Oxford are embroiled in a row over a stretch of scrubby bushes, with a court case likely to cost £150,000 .
7206
A new study has revealed that a third of men have never picked up a bucket and a chamois leather to wash their own car (file pic)
7207
Rihanna (left) went grey last year and posted this image of her silver locks on Instagram and Lady Gaga (right) has also experimented with the trend .
7208
'I think that football is football and I am a person who has spent all my life in football as player, manager and head coach,' he said.
7209
Caernarfon crown court heard Thorman organised the supply of cocaine and cannabis from Liverpool and Manchester in one of the largest conspiracies of its kind in North Wales .
7210
Martin Odegaard's week got worse when Real Madrid's 16-year-old wonderkid who cost £2.3million was refused a rating by Spanish newspaper AS for his performance for the club's B-team Castilla.
7211
During the ceremony, McCoy, an avid Arsenal supporter, was presented with the lifetime achievement award by Gunners legend Thierry Henry.
7212
The 92-year-old, who started her career in New York City when she was just 25, is sharing a few big scoops that were too scandalous to print over the course of her storied career at papers including the New York Post and New York Daily News.
7213
Walter the 22-year-old grey-headed flying fox bat, from Sydney, picked up his bizarre taste after sneaking a slurp out of his owner's cup of Tetley's tea .
7214
Annegret Raunigk, 65, was plunged into a vortex of travel and trials thanks to the wish of daughter Leila, who turns ten this year, but says she is not bothered about what people say about her decision to have more children so late in life.
7215
The NHS said: 'Binge eating is an eating disorder where a person feels compelled to overeat on a regular basis through regular binges.
7216
Germany's Angelique Kerber came from a set down to outmuscle Caroline Wozniacki 3-6, 6-1, 7-5 on Sunday and win the Stuttgart Grand Prix for her second title of the season.
7217
Wakefield coach James Webster explained how tough his club were finding life after their 80-0 First Utility Super League thrashing by Warrington Wolves.
7218
And away from sport, HBO, which will broadcast Mayweather vs Pacquiao in America alongside Showtime, issued take down notices last week after the season five premiere of hit show Game of Thrones was streamed.
7219
Joshua Burns claims he never abused little Naomi, and she suffered injuries after she slipped off his lap while he was ending a phone call with his wife and in an attempt to save his daughter from hitting her head on a coffee table he grabbed her by the face .
7220
Relatives of Clay (pictured) said that the two men who have been arrested for attacking him - 19-year-old Quintavious Barber and 18-year-old Malik Morton - accused Clay of stealing a PlayStation 3.
7221
The riot erupted in February 2012 when supporters of home team Al-Masry - from the canal city of Port Said - and Cairo's Al-Ahly clashed after an Egyptian  league match between the two clubs.
7222
Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti is adamant his side can cope without injured trio Luka Modric, Gareth Bale and Karim Benzema when they face city rivals Atletico on Wednesday night.
7223
Brown was the star of the show in the final, scoring two goals as Chelsea defeated Shakhtar Donetsk 3-2 .
Final: Chelsea 3-2 Shakhtar Donetsk .
7224
As the end credits rolled following the BBC debate last night, four of the five party leaders shook hands with each other - but Mr Farage (right) just drank from a glass of water from behind his stand .
7225
The Axford family will board an emergency medical flight on Monday to Denver so that Jameson, center, can have more treatment .
7226
Bolton-born boxer Amir Khan spent his Friday alongside some fellow natural born fighters as he enjoyed a family trip to a safari park in northern California.
7227
KPMG said banks must ‘urgently tackle’ their low return on equity – a key measure of shareholder value – and need to invest in technology to increase their profits.
7228
The Argentine forward, 21, has been linked with a number of Europe's top clubs after some dazzling performances in Serie A, and scored his 13th league goal of the season on Saturday.
7229
Cristiano Ronaldo scored the 300th goal of his Real Madrid career to become the third player in the club's history to reach the landmark alongside Alfredo Di Stefano and Raul.
7230
On Monday afternoon, the man in his 70s believes he accidentally stood on a sunbaking crocodile on the 11th hole at the Palmer Sea Reef Golf Course, causing the croc to swiftly retaliate .
7231
Mother-of-one Jennifer Drew has saved £17,000 over three years by spending an hour a day searching for deals and coupons .
It's like an addiction.'
7232
This time, United will be based largely on the west coast, playing games against Club America in Seattle, San Jose Earthquakes, at a venue to be announced and Barcelona near San Francisco before facing PSG in Chicago on the way home.
7233
The new collagen-laced brew, created by Japanese liquor company Suntory, boasts a five per cent alcohol content level and claims to have two grams of collagen per can.
7234
A widespread search is being carried by search and rescue teams including the air wing, dog squad, local police and SES members, along with campers around the surrounding areas.
7235
Prime Minister David Cameron (left) will be joined by William Hague (right) as they launch the English manifesto - with the latter expected to warn England risks being 'held to ransom' by SNP .
7236
Kim Hill (left) was abused for years by her step-father but never revealed her past until her partner Rob (right) encouraged her to approach the police about her attacker.
7237
Delphi Automotive  has completed the longest automated drive in the US,  travelling from San Francisco to New York in the first coast-to-coast trip ever attempted by an automated vehicle.
7238
Rating: . Poets House is a swish new hotel in Ely, a three-minute walk from the cathedral, offering terrific value.
Poets House used to be an old people's home.
7239
The volunteer holds the jaguar around the neck and gives it cuddles as it sucks the contents from the bottle before seamlessly moving onto another one.
7240
Tuesday night against Italy could be the most important England game Michael Carrick has ever played.
That’s why so many of his team-mates love playing alongside him.
7241
Vietnamese labourer Pham Quang Lanh shows the wound in his head where a maggot infestation had taken hold following a botched operation to repair an earlier head injury with a metal plate .
7242
Spurs are determined to keep Lloris at White Hart Lane and will put a £35million price tag on his head .
7243
Now genetic research has revealed that ancient European populations were dark skinned for far longer than had originally been thought.
7244
The monkey's owner Teresa Bullock captured the two-minute clip at her house in Ohio on the birthday of her 18-year-old Macaque  named Angel .
7245
Jack Wilshere took to Social Media to thank fans for coming to support the midfielder on Monday night .
7246
I sincerely apologize.'
The officer was named by the New York Daily News as Detective Patrick Cherry of the NYPD's Joint Terrorism Task Force.
7247
Federal health officials say 106 passengers and six crew members aboard the Celebrity Infinity (seen in this file photo) cruise ship were sickened by the gastrointestinal illness norovirus .
7248
Dortmund are now only five points from the top six having climbed their way from the foot of the table at the midway stage of the season to 10th, although their coach Jurgen Klopp insists their league position after the Klassiker is not his biggest concern.
7249
At home and abroad: Suicide rates were similar regardless of whether or not servicemen and women were deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan .
7250
Just one day after the death of Kiraz, a woman armed with guns and hand grenades was shot dead as she tried to attack Istanbul's police headquarters .
7251
Muslim women should be allowed to wear a full-face veil while appearing in court, Britain's most senior judge has suggested.
7252
A young Syrian boy has revealed how he saw depraved Islamic State militants playing football with a severed head inside the besieged Yarmouk refugee camp.
7253
S. Kidman and Co are a family business with a headquarters is in Adelaide and have employed 170 staff .
The sale is being handled by Ernst and Young Adelaide.
7254
Chalobah had been the big hope in academy circles, the one player Chelsea’s academy director Neil Bath hoped could break the run, stretching back to 1999, since a youth-team graduate became a first-team regular.
7255
'I just need to get a few more games in, and I think that will hopefully be a couple of games his season, otherwise start again good next season from pre-season on.'
7256
Recalling the incident, Deanna Robinson said: 'I'm 38 weeks pregnant, and with my stomach again repeatedly pressed into that counter, and with my 18-month old son watching his mother be assaulted, and him screaming in fear'
7257
Echidnas, like many native Australian animals, are actually 'proficient' swimmers - though they usually prefer fresh water to the open ocean .
7258
But the pound fell to near 1.46 against the US dollar, its lowest level since June 2010 - just after the last election when no party secured a majority.
7259
Following a segment on wedding costs that touched on the price of engagement rings, WCCO This Morning reporter Ashley Roberts' boyfriend, Justin McCray, surprised her with an engagement ring of her own.
7260
Bettie Jo, who now weighs 35st 8lbs (500lbs) thanks to surgery, reveals on the show that Josh had become her 'caretaker' - helping her go to the toilet and into the shower, and putting powder between her rolls of flesh afterwards to stop her skin from chafing.
7261
Alexander Kutner with mum, Sky TV presenter Kay Burley, at Ulusaba, Sir Richard Branson's private game reserve in South Africa's Sabi Sands .
7262
Mayall, who played scheming Tory MP Alan B’Stard in ITV series The New Statesman, and a host of other comedy characters, died suddenly aged 56 last June.
7263
Mr Saw was in Australia on a long-stay work visa, and had been working on and off in Sydney in recent years.
'He is going to be badly missed,' she said.
7264
Ander Herrera says he bares his full name on the back of his shirt for superstitious reasons following his spell at Athletic Bilbao.
7265
Delmarva Power says it did not cut off power to a family of eight who died of accidental carbon monoxide poisoning because they were behind on their utility bills.
7266
Farouq's sons, Omar Eshpari, 34, and Hider Eshpari, 28, admitted conspiracy to defraud before the trial while wife Safia Eshpari, 52, admitted money laundering.
7267
As revealed by Sportsmail, the fight in Oakland, California will not be for Ward's WBA super-middleweight world title.
7268
The British Medical Association also found nearly two-thirds of GPs were not willing to join into larger groups to ensure one surgery in an area was open on Saturdays and Sundays .
7269
Messi took to Instagram to post a picture of his son, Thiago, kissing his wife Antonella Roccuzzo’s stomach with the message: ‘Waiting for you baby.
7270
City boss Manuel Pellegrini has been hampered over the past year by UEFA restricting them to a net transfer spend of £49million in each window and keeping the club’s overall wage bill to its current level of £205million-a-year.
7271
Senators later voted 19-0 to give the White House some of, but not all of its asks, and left in a signature feature of the bill giving Congress the authority to approve a final deal with Iran that the White House earlier implied may have been on the chopping block.
7272
Pacquiao faces Mayweather on May 2 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas in a fight that is expected to gross more than $300million.
7273
Rescue:
A fireman helps the little girl who has fallen between the metal bars and become trapped by her neck .
Help:
7274
Mauricio Pochettino believes Harry Kane and Ryan Mason have not been able to show the same level of consistency since they returned from England duty and hopes to see a big improvement when Spurs face Newcastle.
7275
Rangers boss Stuart McCall wants to win one visit from an Edinburgh club at Ibrox this season .
But I believe we are a very good side when we play our best.
7276
The 50-year-old grilled Red Bull's chief technical officer Adrian Newey - who has been a part of ten world championship wins in the past - and checked out pit stops during his time at the factory with Sky Sports F1.
7277
Ryan Giroux is accused of shooting three people in a Phoenix motel, killing a man and injuring two women during the incident in March 18 in the suburb of Mesa, and will now stand trial.
7278
Shay Given will keep his place in Aston Villa's side for the FA Cup final at Wembley against Arsenal - and is putting Brad Guzan under pressure for the No 1 jersey in the Premier League.
7279
Israel's President Reuven Rivlin (centre) pauses after laying a wreath during a ceremony marking the Holocaust Remembrance Day at Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem .
7280
No love: 13 letters that hung over Yankee Stadium were estimated to bring in anywhere from $300,000 to $600,000, but received no bids at a Sotheby's auction Wednesday .
7281
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was shot down over rebel-held territory in eastern Ukraine on July 17 last year, and all 298 aboard were killed .
7282
I like it because I want to be close with them. ‘ .
We want to keep the ball, have full-backs bombing on and work on a very fast recovery.
7283
Attack:
Barton has spent £20,000 on treatment for his teeth, around £5,000 on Botox, £2,000 on waxing and £2,500 on tanning treatment.
 
Debts:
7284
Like the survey results, the overwhelming majority of women chose to walk through the doors marked 'average' Unnattainable: 'Beautiful, to me, is too far out of reach,' said one participant who chose the average door .
7285
The U.S. Bureau of Land Management in Missoula is offering free food, housing a job to people willing to live in Garnet and work as a tour operator, as the government prepares the village to become a new tourist stop.
7286
Reporters initially seemed to fear that the unscheduled departure was some sort of emergency, but officials apparently tipped them off to the president's destination as photos from the outing were soon filed.
7287
This comes at the same time that Evans announced that his disputed baby cookbook 'Bubba Yum Yum: The Paleo Way' will become a self-published digital book to be released this month.
7288
Wiley Bridgeman, 60 (left) and Kwame Ajamu, 57 (right) were awarded a collective $1.6million from an Ohio court on Friday after spending decades in prison for wrongful murder convictions (file photo, Nov. 2014)
7289
Paula Dunican was horrified when she found the body of a crushed lizard on the lining of a £25 coat from Asda .
'I think it must have been ironed - it was disgusting.'
7290
Kane made his England debut as a substitute on Friday against Lithuania, scoring after only 79 seconds, and started last night's friendly against Italy in Turin when Townsend scored in a 1-1 draw.
7291
Former secretary of state Hillary Rodham Clinton got her budding presidential campaign's first targeted question about the deadly 2012 Benghazi terror attacks on Tuesday night, and her answer was the sound of one hand clapping.
7292
Confederate and Union forces clash during a re-enactment of the Battle of Appomattox Station on Wednesday as part of the 150th anniversary of the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia to Union forces at Appomattox Court House, in Appomattox, Virginia .
7293
Police said New York resident Nicholas Dematteis, 39, flew into the rage while at Bocca East (above) during brunch, and demanded a free meal around 4pm after waiting an hour and a half .
7294
Corbisiero hasn’t started a Test for England for 28 months.
Northampton prop Alex Corbisiero has not started a game for England in nearly two years .
7295
Davion Only, 16, who captured hearts in 2013 when he made a plea for a family to 'love him forever', has been adopted by his old caseworker Connie Bell Going (right) and her family .
7296
Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience' - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt.
7297
They were found hidden among grass on the trail.
The sausages were loaded with the poison (left) and found hidden among the grass (right) on the trail .
7298
Ms Pekin said she tried to escaped from her alleged attacker by getting a cab back into the middle of Kuta, but he forced his way into the back of the car and  allegedly raped her a second time .
7299
Ashley Arenson (left) said boyfriend Dan Fredinburg, 33, had a way of making people around him feel special and urged them to accomplish everything they wanted.
7300
She says baby James was born in 'three pushes' and she and her partner, Aaron Swallow, 27, have now made an offer on a house so they can all live together as a family.
7301
Oldfield, who still appears on Channel 9 regularly, said she hated looking at pictures of herself due to the weight she gained since having children.
7302
Nasa certified its safety.
This is the California-based SpaceX company's seventh station supply run since 2012, all from Cape Canaveral.
7303
As Mr Carey jumped off the ledge of the bridge, Mr Rawe (left, top) got his foot stuck on the railings, the pair then began to tumble towards the river bank 500ft below (right) without their parachutes opening properly .
7304
Manny Pacquiao took time out of his busy schedule to hang out with Saved by the Bell actor Mario Lopez, otherwise known as AC Slater, and NBA superstar Jeremy Lin.
7305
Security forces blocked off the area to allow ambulances and rescue crews to care for the wounded .
 The force of the blast caused windows to break several miles away .
7306
A pensioner will stand trial for allegedly making a racist gesture at a football match, with three black players expected to give evidence.
7307
Horrifying:
The woman was watching the Pittsburgh Pirates take on the Chicago Cubs at PNC Park on Monday night when she was hit by a foul ball .
7308
Graham, who dubbed himself Teflon Don, was last year jailed for life with a minimum of 32 years for killing Ms Brown for her money nine years after her death.
7309
Claudetteia Love, 17, said last week that she and her friends would not go to Carroll High School's prom in Monroe, Louisiana, because Principal Patrick Taylor had told her she had to wear a dress.
7310
The Viva Las Vegas Rockabilly Weekend - now in its 18th year - is a flashback to classic cars, vintage pinups, Tiki drinks, tattoos and a fashion aesthetic that balances high heels with just as high hair.
7311
It found in young, non-pregnant mice, 82 per cent of the liver had regenerated after two days and in older, non-pregnant mice, only 46 per cent had regenerated in that time.
7312
Karen Wakefield and her partner Paul (centre) could face three months in jail for refusing to pay fines for taking her 13-year-old daughter  (right) out of school during term time to go on holiday to Turkey .
7313
High-powered human rights lawyer Amal Clooney held a press conference in Washington DC today calling for the release of imprisoned former president of Maldives Mohamed Nasheed.
Buy now .
7314
A  teenager with a deadly brain tumour has  raised the majority of $80,000 needed to fund his life-saving surgery.
Hugs from our family to yours!' wrote another.
7315
Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich and Ligue 1 giants Paris Saint-Germain are both interested in De Bruyne, who is expected to cost around £40million after joining Wolfsburg from Chelsea for £18m in January last year.
7316
We have withdrawn him from school, and fully intend on professionally assessing why he behaved in such a horrible way, and what we must do as a family to keep this type of behavior from ever happening again.'
7317
Barcelona coach Luis Enrique has sought to play down Neymar's petulant reaction when the Brazil forward was substituted in Saturday's 2-2 La Liga draw at Sevilla.
7318
Almost everyone longs to be reunited with deceased friends and family.
 An accompanying caption says: 'Modelling my bestie and business partner Nick into Project Elysium.
7319
The personal dilemmas posted range from relationship questions such as 'I'm getting married next week and I'm having doubts, is that normal?' to questions about sexual dysfunction, career changes and secret crushes.
One user asks: 'My long term girlfriend is bad in bed...shall I tell her?' (left).
7320
Tamplin was jailed for two years at January's sentencing hearing, but Mr Recorder Stuart Trimmer QC spared Starrs jail as an ‘act of mercy’ - although he ordered him to repay the money he took and pay a £1,500 fine.
7321
In the video Mr Garginian, who moved to Australia from Armenia in 1977, dismisses the Australian-style barbecue of cooking 'oily' sausages.
7322
Stancil, pictured in court on Tuesday, is awaiting extradition back to North Carolina, where he is accused of fatally shooting 44-year-old Ron Lane, a print shop director at Wayne Community College .
7323
Ferguson’s spectacular double somersault fall from the favourite Merrion Square in the 4.20pm at Wincanton has been watched hundreds of thousands of times online.
7324
Watford boss Slavisa Jokanovic refuses to look beyond Saturday's home game against Birmingham as his third-placed side bid to climb back into the top two.
7325
Balotelli's Liverpool team-mate Daniel Sturridge and Arsenal striker Danny Welbeck have also each received more than a thousand discriminatory messages according to research carried out by Tempero, a social media management agency, and analytics firm Brandwatch.
7326
And the 27-year-old demonstrated why he is widely-regarded as one of the best-ever shooters from behind the arc in basketball history, with a Golden State' three-point drill - where he made a staggering 77 shots in the row.
7327
Since the threats began at the start of this week, the girl, who attends Lone Hill Middle School in San Dimas, has been kept home by her mother.
7328
A picture of Bahar Mustafa, 27, student union Welfare and Diversity Officer at Goldsmiths University in London, pretending to cry was posted online  as she was being accused of discrimination.
7329
The 28-year-old Wyong Roos rugby league club player was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died at Gosford Hospital.
7330
Scroll down for video .
The fact ‘hot-or-not’ videos are so public increases a young person’s feelings of shame and powerlessness about how they look.
7331
'He can eat a lot,' added the farmer.
Mr Xiao said the goat is growing quickly and has become one of the most playful animals on the farm .
7332
A 21-year-old man with depression has made the most gut-wrenching final goodbye video to his family, telling them not to blame themselves and reassuring them there is nothing they could have done to stop him taking his own life.
7333
Researchers believe those who lived at the Rising Whale site may be part of what scientists call the 'Birnirk' culture .
7334
City, beaten 3-1 by Chelsea in the first leg of the FA Youth Cup final on Monday evening, are determined to sign more young English players.
7335
Hearing the case in the Upper Tribunal of the Immigration and Asylum Chamber, Judge Helen Rimington ruled that if SAKA were sent home the Taliban 'might also be informed of his return’
7336
It takes a range of types to make a successful team and you could not get more contrasting personalities than Sir Ian and the quiet lad from Burnley who broke his English Test wicket-taking record on Friday night.
7337
But Carlisle Magistrates' Court heard this week that in reality Smith did not have enough money to pay for the £21 dinner.
7338
Yan Tai weighed just over seven stone when she began dating You Pan (right) but two years on and the pretty 20-year-old has ballooned to over 14 stone (left)
7339
A witness who saw the officer taking a picture of Charly after the incident posted their image to Instagram.
'RBS':
7340
As the countdown continues to Floyd Mayweather's mega-fight with Manny Pacquiao in Las Vegas on May 2, The Money Man's daughter Iyanna Mayweather has shared her thoughts about life in training with her champion father.
7341
At its annual conference in Harrogate, it will say schools should follow the lead of countries like Finland and introduce 45-minute lessons immediately followed by 15-minute play times.
7342
Dave King has moved closer to becoming Rangers chairman after the Court of Session cleared him to return as a director of the club.
7343
Hosts: Clarkson (centre - with fellow presenters Richard Hammond, left, and May, right) was sacked by the BBC after an ‘unprovoked physical and verbal’ attack  that left his victim in need of hospital treatment .
7344
During his Bristol visit, Mr Cameron read a speech and said there was a ‘moral’ case for the Tories’ policies .
He was unfazed by ‘the odd noise-off from a deputy’.
7345
Fresh food prices have dropped by around 0.9 per cent in a year, while the figure for electrical items was even greater, falling 5.7 per cent in the last 12 months.
7346
They found that the cotton products absorb chemicals commonly used on toilet paper, laundry detergents and shampoos, which glow under UV light, meaning that they could shed light on previously undetectable misplumbed pathways.
7347
A private funeral service attended by ex-players Shane Warne and Ian Chappell was held on Wednesday for former Australia cricket captain and commentator Richie Benaud.
7348
Doncaster's media team faced a tough challenge compling the match highlights of 0-0 draw .
The managers on the touchline during Saturday's goalless draw at the Keepmoat Stadium .
7349
Burnley (4-3-3): Heaton 7.5; Trippier 6.5, Duff 6, Shackell 6.5, Mee 6; Jones 5.5 (Taylor 84), Arfield 6.5, Boyd 6 (Wallace 84); Ings 6.5, Vokes 5.5 (Jutkiewicz 59 6), Barnes 5 .
7350
A state parole board granted parole for James Schoenfeld today, 39 years after he kidnapped 26 children on a school bus along with the driver in the hopes of asking for $5 million ransom .
7351
Richard Wilkins is made of stern stuff, he's had to be across almost 30 years of dealing with tantrums and egos as a television presenter and interviewer, but standing on ANZAC Cove thinking of what his grandfather George had faced 100 years ago, reduced him to tears.
7352
The video shows Donald Allen, 66, pointing a loaded, 22-caliber pistol at officer Brian Barnett on April 11.
Deputy chief Carter added: 'Mr Allen is a victim.
7353
In 2010 Oliver Balicao, another male nurse at the hospital, was jailed for raping two female patients .
He will be sentenced at Oxford Crown Court on April 27.
7354
Barcelona goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen is keen to impress manager Luis Enrique in the Champions League having failed to make his La Liga debut since joining the club in the summer.
7355
In January this year, four hostages were killed in a Paris kosher supermarket in violence that began when Islamist militants carried out a massacre in the office of the Charlie Hebdo satirical weekly.
7356
Sir Paul McCartney, 72, and his wife Nancy Shevell, 55, top the list of the richest musicians overall for another year.
39 = Guy Berryman £52 million .
7357
It is believed one of the planes had issued a may-day warning and attempted to make an emergency landing when it smashed into the other plane, which was idling on the runway.
7358
The Aston Villa boss could not stay still for a moment on the Villa Park touchline as his players went behind twice before claiming a point as striker Christian Benteke completed his hat-trick with seven minutes to go.
7359
A memorial display at Dusseldorf airport has revealed the first photograph of hero captain Patrick Sondheimer left) who tried to break down the cockpit door to stop killer pilot Andreas Lubitz (second from left) from crashing the aircraft .
7360
Fellow guard Simon Scott – whose Facebook profile has now been deleted – posted messages slamming companies for carrying Halal-certified products.
7361
Cristiano Ronaldo only needed 288 games to score 300 goals for Real Madrid and he has been presented with a special shirt to mark his achievements  by club president Florentino Perez.
7362
Go Set a Watchman, a 304-page novel, is a sequel to To Kill a Mockingbird, although Lee actually wrote it in the mid-1950s, before Mockingbird.
7363
Andrew Silicani, 23, of Cheyenne, Wyoming, pleaded guilty on Monday to trying — from behind bars — to hire a hit man to kill his mother and stepfather so he could inherit their house .
7364
The 26-year-old, an employee at Rosie cafe which is frequented by Mr Key and his wife, recounted on The Daily Blog how the Prime Minister kept playfully pulling her hair despite being told to stop during election time last year.
7365
'Eerily similar': Student Hannah Wilson, left, was found murdered hours after leaving a bar in Bloomington, Indiana last week - nearly four years after Lauren Spierer, right, vanished after leaving the same bar .
7366
The bright student's family described her as an 'inspirational, passionate and caring person' and said her death had left a 'deep hole' in their hearts.
7367
‘I was due to play a tournament at Greensboro in 1965 when Jack said if I wanted to win the US Open and complete the set I should go with him to the US Open site and practise.
7368
Xavier Denamur sparked fury after he exposed France as a country of microwave cheats and even went as far as to compare chefs' corner-cutting as being the culinary equivalent of a low-cost airline .
7369
Benteke praised the impact of new manager Sherwood for playing a style that suits the striker's attributes .
‘I don’t want a dream, I want to do it.’
7370
On Friday, Rodgers said he remained confident that Sterling would stay; that the situation would resolve itself in the summer.
7371
Mr Davison had put the family racing stables, and seven-bedroom detached former matrimonial home at Tillingdown Farm, near Woldingham, into a complex structure of offshore companies and trusts and denied that he had any stake in the property.
7372
UKIP will be counting on England batting coach Graham Thorpe voting for them in next month’s General Election.
Smith vaults into Euros .
7373
The 25-year-old personal trainer is joined by professional cricketer, Freddie Flintoff, 37, as they model the latest collection of clothing for the brand's summer campaign, filmed in Palma, Majorca.
7374
Christopher Stefanoni, 50, says his nine-year-old son was moved into a lower Little League team because his affordable housing homes threatened the ethnic makeup of the extremely white town .
7375
Their findings have been hailed a 'tour de force', raising hopes the body's immune system could be trained to attack melanoma, pancreatic, lung and breast cancer, pictured .
7376
Al-Douri was the King of Clubs in the famous pack of cards the US issued of wanted members of Saddam's regime after its collapse .
7377
US giant Morgan Stanley said the prospect of a Labour government reliant on the Scottish Nationalists would create the ‘greatest uncertainty’ of any election result.
7378
Visit site .
Although she has been parading her enviable curves at various events to promote her new movie, Blake, pictured arriving at Sirius radio in New York on Tuesday, says losing weight hasn't been a priority .
7379
Southampton supporters are planning on turning St Mary’s orange when they face Tottenham on Saturday to shun former manager Mauricio Pochettino.
7380
Last year, workers aged 18 to 24 received bumper 10.6 per cent pay rises, falling to 3.8 per cent for people aged 25 to 34 and to 2 per cent for workers aged 36 to 49.
7381
Australia World Cup winner James Faulkner has signed a deal to join Lancashire for the bulk of this summer .
7382
Danielle Meitiv (right) appeared on the Today show in January with her 10-year-old son Rafi (center) and 6-year-old daughter Dvora about a month after Child Protective Services launched an investigation because she let the two walk home from a park alone .
7383
Hermes is one of the most coveted handbags of all time, but with a price tag of around £8,000 the Hermés Birkin bag isn't quite within every fashionista's price range (unless you're Victoria Beckham whose collection is worth a reported £1.5m).
7384
The organisers of the event said that it took 30 craftsmen three months to make the gold shirt and the women's clothing which is also worth around £40,000.
7385
Play-off chasing Derby are planning for life without former England boss McClaren, who has been linked to jobs with Newcastle and Sunderland, and will make a concerted effort to get Dyche, who has impressed in the Premier League this season.
7386
We don't get to see him enjoy these things when he's like 10, we have to do it now.'
We don't get to see him enjoy these things when he's like 10, we have to do it now'
7387
You don't get many of those to the pound.
We know Richards as a right-back - but he's developed a penchant for playing as a central defender in recent seasons.
7388
Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that intercepted phone calls prove the US helped Chechen Islamic insurgents wage war against Russia .
7389
According to the laws of the game, a penalty should be retaken if it entered the goal after encroachment by team-mates of the player taking the kick.
7390
The North County LGBTQ Resource Center said the young woman did not have the support she needed from her school and adults, and sometimes was forced to dress as a boy (above in photo from 2 years ago)
7391
England Test captain Alastair Cook feared Jonathan Trott's international career was over 18 months ago, but feels he is now ready to face the 'pressure cooker' once again.
7392
Luke Martin from the Tourism Industry Council of Tasmania Tweeted the above after Mr Schofield said of Tasmania: 'All the young people leave, and the only ones left are the dregs, the bogans, the third-generation morons'
7393
Advanced paternal age (over 40) increases the risk of breast cancer in their daughters by around 60 per cent, according to one of the studies the American researchers looked at (one of five to find a link between advanced paternal age and breast cancer).
7394
More than 80 firefighters spent six hours tackling flames up to 35ft high at the St Catherine's Hill nature reserve in Dorset yesterday .
7395
Not the usual black cab: Taxi rank of tuk-tuks line the streets in Negombo in Sri Lanka .
A golden beach with turquise waters at Unawatuna near Galle on the south coast of Sri Lanka .
7396
But not the actual grand prize of a $20,000 Best Buy gift card and an all-inclusive trip for two to the Maui Jim Maui Invitational college basketball tournament in Hawaii this November.
7397
The boxing champion's song 'Lalaban Ako Para Sa Filipino' translates as 'I will fight for the Fillipino'
I will fight the whole world for my country bringing your name .
I'm a Pinoy.
7398
Everton manager Roberto Martinez sees a fearlessness in relegation-threatened Burnley similar to that displayed by his Wigan team in surviving against the odds in the Premier League.
7399
The Wonderland House in Brighton sleeps up to 24, with tea party sets, Queen of Heart themed bunk beds, or alternatively try the snug Looking Glass Cottage with décor inspired by the fantasy story.
7400
Paul Nuttall, Ukip’s education spokesman, appeared in the party’s manifesto in thick-rimmed glasses holding a book called ‘British Rebels and Reformers’ - a vintage hard-back picture book .
7401
British officers were forced to accept the four-day inspection from the experts from Moscow under a European arms control treaty despite heightened tensions with Vladimir Putin.
7402
The QPR players went 2-0 up thanks to Austin and ended up going in 3-0 ahead at half-time .
QPR captain Barton celebrates his goal, his team's fourth, in the game against West Brom .
7403
Caroline Wozniacki was spotted taking in a game of basketball in Indiana on Monday alongside NFL star J.J. Watt.
7404
A member of the Armed Forces has received £709,000 in compensation for bullying, it emerged last night.
Those who have lost both legs in combat are eligible for £570,000.
7405
Each year in the UK around 41,000 men are diagnosed with prostate cancer and 11,000 die from the disease .
That drops to just 30 per cent if the cancer has spread.
7406
Ralph Cramer, 70, and his wife, Lynn, 59, were returning home from the Creekside Café in Mount Joy at about 9 p.m. on Sunday when the accident occurred.
7407
Thirty-five people were standing outside and some were crying.
Rutter said the scene was 'chaotic' when the fire department arrived at the church.
7408
French MPs have voted to punish anyone who 'incites' people to become dangerously thin with a year in prison and fines of up to £7,000 weeks after rejecting  a ban on super-skinny models .
7409
A 71-year-old man and 64-year-old woman were both charged with unlawfully possessing a firearm after a police search found a rifle and ammunition in a home in Bundaberg, Queensland, on Thursday .
7410
Marble-sized hailstones, some up to 2cm in diameter pounded multiple suburbs in the city's east and west on ANZAC Day, coating streets and backyards in sleet despite only lasting for around three hours.
7411
Roeder and former Hull City chairman Adam Pearson are joining head coach Stuart Gray in a three-man task force charged with returning the Owls to the Premier League.
7412
KFC's quiz also includes a few situational questions, however these are nowhere near as difficult as  the scenario questions in McDonald's 23-question multiple choice quiz .
7413
4/5 .
3/5 .
A thermal insulator keeps the water cool, while an anti-allergy cushion of polyester fibres surround the inner water chamber, making it look and feel like any other pillow.
7414
Deborah Kane, from  Manchester (pictured), had her right eye removed three years ago in a life-saving nine-hour operation to stop her skin cancer spreading to her brain .
7415
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger does not know the exact reason Alexis Sanchez chose the Emirates Stadium over Anfield - but he is glad the Chile forward will be lining up for his side rather than against them for Liverpool on Saturday.
7416
As visitors travel up One World Trade Center, pictured last week, they will see an incredible time lapse video of the growth of the city between the 1500s and the present day, including the construction of the towers .
7417
Strauss is widely respected by the England team and management but would be far more comfortable in a suit with distance between him and the players rather than in a tracksuit at the heart of the dressing room.
PLAYERS HE LIKES:
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
REASON IT MIGHT NOT:
PLAYERS HE LIKES:
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
7418
Family and friends of Aaron Siler, a man shot dead by police last month, are in shock after a billboard featuring the officer who pulled the trigger, Pablo Torres, was erected in Kenosham, Wisconsin .
7419
Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer gave a press conference Friday morning where officials said that hydrochloric acid particles were detected in the smoke near the building, but not in the downwind plume .
7420
Among her injuries, Ms Knapton was also left with a deep cut to her shoulder, a deep wound to her neck and cuts between her nose and mouth.
7421
At around 6pm search and rescue workers discovered his tracks in the snow leading through woodland up to the top of the cliff, where they found his abandoned skis.
7422
Barry Selby, 54, who lives with his dog in Poole, Dorset, was eating a bag of cheese and onion crisps when he made the bizarre discovery, which appears to be a profile of a human skull.
7423
Manchester City have decided to listen to offers for Yaya Toure and Samir Nasri this summer as the Barclays Premier League champions look to repair the damage of a disastrous title defence.
7424
Bailey Murrill surprised her shocked favorite nurse when she got up and stood on her own for the first time after being inexplicably paralyzed for 11 days and cared for by the woman while she was in hospital .
7425
Strong storms rumbled through the Southern Plains early on Thursday, missing major population centers but offering a preview of bad weather that could hit Chicago, Detroit and other big cities in the Midwest later in the day .
7426
Lucky fans in the French city of Saint-Etienne were given a treat on Monday night as Brazilian Ronaldo and Zinedine Zidane took part in the 12th annual Match Against Poverty.
7427
The Blue Mountains, the Hawkesbury and most of Sydney were issued with severe weather warnings just before 4pm, with the Bureau of Meteorology warning the areas to expect 'large hailstones, heavy rainfall that may lead to flash flooding and damaging winds'.
7428
Instead the Arsenal forward, who has scored 18 goals this season, claimed he gets annoyed with people commenting on his slick appearance.
7429
Crystal Palace are convinced Yannick Bolasie will learn from Wilfried Zaha’s mistakes and not jump into a dream move too soon.
7430
Chipotle says that constraints on receiving supplies that met their standards led to 6.3 per cent price increases last year (file photo)
7431
The reportedly painful and dangerous trend involves participants placing their mouth over the opening of a cup, jar or other narrow vessel and sucking in until the air vacuum causes their lips to swell up - all in the hopes of emulating Kylie Jenner's bee-stung pout.
7432
An Indian woman said her driver raped her in New Delhi, leading to outcries and a temporary ban of Uber in that city.
7433
This is the cringe-making moment Ed Miliband was mobbed by a screaming hen party – and even let the bride on his tour bus for a 'selfie'.
7434
Mr Gordon was forced to quit the Queensland Labor Party last week in the wake of being accused of domestic violence and withholding his criminal history from Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk .
7435
Neither man had dramas on the way to the green this time but Holmes got much closer to the hole with his second approach shot, and after Wagner over-hit a long putt Holmes again had the chance to win it from 10ft.
7436
Vanhoenacker is a senior first officer with British Airways, who wants us simply to understand his passion for his job, and to share with us many of its more beguiling secrets.
7437
Paladini has previously made an attempt to buy Birmingham from Carson Yeung (pictured) Milanese is a former centre half who played for several Italian clubs and had one year at QPR during a long playing career and briefly managed Leyton Orient last year.
7438
Yaya Toure wants to meet with Manchester City to thrash out his future, according to his controversial agent.
All the supporters like him, he's helped them make history.'
7439
Although he never indulged in binge-eating, Mr Tempest-Mitchell says he would eat smaller portions at regular intervals and was drinking around eight cans of cola a day.
7440
The Swan Come Dine With Me Ice Cream & Gelato maker is best for dinner parties .
How does it work?
Rating: .
How does it work?
Mandy's best for budgets is the Shake n Make Ice Cream Maker (left) but for kids the giant plastic 'ice cream cone' (right) from John Lewis is perfect .
7441
The study, published in the journal Plos One, shows that at one time small sperm whales measuring  around seven feet (two metres in length) had a much larger spermaceti organ relative to their size than  modern day relatives.
7442
Teaming up with the advertsiing agency Rethink, the photographs feature clothing labels telling the tragic stories of factory workers from Bangladesh, Cambodia and Sierra Leone.
7443
Luis Suarez will be at the Parc des Princes tonight, forming one part of football’s most famous three-man attack, looking to fire Barcelona into the Champions League semi-finals.
7444
He had earlier been successful with Pretend (Buick) in the Unibet Sprint Championship Stakes and Four Seasons (Adam Kirby) in the 32Red Three-Year-old Mile Championship.
7445
Mr Czahor said that with Clear a user’s tweets are analysed using IBM’s Watson supercomputer and put through sentiment analysis to ensure they are taken in context.
7446
The Bay Area have one of the most acute homelessness problems in the U.S., with approximately destitute 14,000 people living in San Francisco and San Jose alone.
7447
Wenger said: 'I always have eight or nine players of my team in my head the day before the game, but there's always a doubt on one or two.
7448
When Khan and Bosson finish victorious, Rodley cannot contain himself, erupting into fist-pumping celebrations and bolting off camera.
7449
Priscilla Presley will serve as a witness at the first wedding to be held at an all-new chapel of love in Las Vegas.
The wedding chapel is not a joke.'
7450
The inquiry into the Iraq war, lead by Sir John Chilcot, began in 2009, stopped taking evidence in 2011, but will not report until 2016, a source said .
7451
Arsene Wenger says something must be done to solve the fixture scheduling mess which means Arsenal's FA Cup semi-final will clash with a key Premier League title game.
7452
NSW Traffic and Highway Patrol Command shared the bizarre image on their Facebook page, showing a silver car on the side of a busy road laden down with a vast amount of large red chillies .
7453
Caught on camera: Leia, an eight-month-old Boxer from Pennsylvania, was filmed as she lay on the couch and latched on to a baby's pacifier .
7454
Mr Yates married Laura Arnold, a woman he met at a church in Clear Lake, during a private ceremony in 2006, two days before his ex-wife's murder re-trial .
7455
The team's changed a bit so there are guys I haven't played with and a few guys I played on the Lions tour with which is great.
I went too far.'
7456
Andy Murray reacts as he reaches the Miami Open final with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Tomas Berdych .
Murray's fiancee Kim Sears was back in the stands wearing the same wide brimmed hat .
7457
Throughout its storied life, the Molalla Log Cabin has been used as a home, animal shelter, machine shed and granary .
Russian expansion:
7458
MANCHESTER:
MANCHESTER:
NEWCASTLE:
NEWCASTLE:
NEWCASTLE:
MANCHESTER:
7459
Billy Garraty, Grealish's great-great grandfather on his mum’s side, won the FA Cup with Aston Villa in 1905 .
Just don’t count on him pulling his socks up.
7460
Detlef Guenzel chopped Polish-born Wojciech Stempniewicz into small pieces while listening to pop music before burying them in the garden of his home in Hartmannsdorf-Reichenau in 2013.
7461
Mr Bavishi is a joint director of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd with eldest son Manish Bavishi, who lives in Kenton, north-west London, and usually runs the business full-time.
7462
AP McCoy landed the second win of his last Aintree meeting thanks to a trainer he will be praying doesn’t win Saturday's Crabbie’s Grand National.
7463
Police sniffer dogs were used to find them after officers opened the truck's back doors on the A40 near Churcham, Gloucestershire.
7464
Manny Pacquiao has become one of the most recognisable stars in the world of sport after a series of mega-fights and another one to follow on Saturday night against Floyd Mayweather at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.
7465
The race was won by Lutfur Rahman, 50, a controversial figure who has been accused in a separate High Court case of rigging his re-election victory last year.
7466
For 17 years, Mrs Barnett worked at Archway School, in Stroud, Gloucestershire, pictured, where she was known as Miss Shonk, as an art teacher before being promoted head of the department .
7467
And comparing it to Chernobyl could reveal what the future holds .
The Fukushima nuclear disaster was a failure at the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant on 11 March 2011.
7468
Crowder was arrested in Melbourne, facing charges of battery on a law-enforcement officer, resisting with violence, and assault with a deadly weapon on a law-enforcement officer.
7469
Carlo Ancelotti hailed Diego Simeone as one of the world's best coaches as the Italian looked ahead to Real Madrid's Champions League clash with Atletico Madrid.
7470
Victoria Beckham did it.
Blogger Hass Murad and his cousin Kass Chee at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Australia  on Wednesday .
Mini hipster!
7471
Max Maisel (above) went missing on February 21, after his car was found abandoned on the shore of Lake Ontario in New York.
That will not go away.'
7472
A top mortgage broker who bragged that he ‘spared no expense’ to build his dream home is facing jail after conning a bank into giving him the money for it.
7473
Miss Hyart said she was later told by police that Chloe had been raped and then strangled to death in an isolated wood once used as an illegal camp for migrants bound for the UK .
7474
The man's green-colored taxi struck and killed Kadeem Brown and little Tierre Clark, who were part of a group of people waiting at a bus stop on the road (pictured).
7475
The colours in the toy (upper row), the average colour choice for each letter from the 6188 synesthetes (middle row), and the most commonly assigned colour for each letter for the 400 synesthetes are shown here.
7476
Warren picked up his second booking of the competition in Sunday's Scottish Cup semi-final win over Celtic – meaning automatic suspension for the season finale on May 30.
7477
'Furthermore, 91 per cent of companies still don't know where all their cotton comes from and 75 per cent don't know the source of all their fabrics and inputs,' the report stated .
7478
Steven Gerrard is set to get the nod to start at Wembley today as Liverpool bid to reach the FA Cup final against Aston Villa.
'He's a special player.
7479
A sheriff's department in Florida has released a video showing spring break revelers milling about on a beach not 10 feet from where an unconscious 19-year-old girl was being gang raped by a group of men.
7480
Mrs Maddox, who grew up in nearby Saham Toney, said: 'For Reuben they had to put his place of birth as being in transit on the way to Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, at North Tuddenham, so I imagine it will be just the same for Edward.'
7481
Mr Cameron will show that, since Mr Miliband became Labour leader, the SNP has trooped through the lobbies with his MPs in 91.5 per cent of Commons divisions.
7482
Jose Mourinho, pictured on the Chelsea bench during their win against Stoke, has sided with Arsene Wenger .
Maybe my 9km were more important than your 11.’
7483
And McLintock, the Scottish defender who made 403 appearances for the club between 1964 and 1973, has praised his debut-season contribution.
7484
Up next, Rockhold wants a title shot and a shot at MMA history in New York.
'I am the No 1 contender,' Rockhold said.
Madison Square Garden, let's make history.'
7485
When officers burst into his home in West Kensington (above) - on a road with an average property value of nearly £600,000 - they saw cocaine and heroin being thrown from the window of his flat .
7486
Adam Leheup, 34, had denied forcing himself on the 25-year-old telling the jury the woman 'freaked out' when he tried to comfort her about her saggy breasts.
7487
It was followed by Japan where just 13 per cent are religious, Sweden with 19 per cent and the Czech Republic on 23 per cent.
7488
Glaciers in the Amundsen Sea of west Antarctica are losing ice faster than anywhere else on the continent and are the largest contributors to the rise of sea levels.
7489
The charity is calling for volunteers to join its research vessel Silurian to help conduct visual surveys, acoustic monitoring and identification of cetaceans - which include dolphins, whales and porpoises - as well as helping to run the yacht.
7490
Shocking CCTV footage shows the horrendous moment Petri Kurti murdered 47-year-old Glynis Bensley before he fled to a nearby park in Smethwick, West Midlands and boasted about the savage attack.
7491
Motoped employee Ken Stone showed off the Motoped Survival Bike, described by the company as a 'tactical blank canvas' with a 500-mile range, 200mpg efficiency and a heavy-duty universal rack.
7492
Snacks - Fruit or Weight Watchers chocolate bar or snacks .
As well as overhauling her diet and exercise regime, Lisa says she has cut back on the alcohol.
7493
A New Zealand couple needed a home upon returning home after living in the UK, so they built one on the back of an old flatbed truck.
Gorgeous:
7494
More than 300 people and 60 pugs are expected to attend the wedding, but Ms Herceg said virtual tickets for the live stream of the event can also be purchased by pug-lovers who can't attend in person .
7495
Dr Canavero says he is ready to be branded a Dr Frankenstein in his attempts to perform the first head transplant.
He was ready to be branded Dr Frankenstein.
7496
A 40g Honey Smoked BBQ KIND Bar - marketed as 'bold and all-natural' - contains 230 calories, 16gms of fat and 125mgs of sodium.
Sodium: 91mg .
7497
Bosses at Cardiff Council (pictured) say workers have begun removing the posters, dubbed 'chilling' and 'threatening' by locals .
7498
Jose Mauricio Oliveira, 41, at Crackland in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil which attracts people from all walks of life, some of whom once held jobs, some with loving families, who harbored dreams of a better existence, all lost to their addiction .
7499
Experts believe they have finally discovered how the Rapa Nui people placed distinctive hats made of red stone on top of some of the Easter Island figures’ heads, more than 700 years ago .
7500
Jade and Aaron Badland asked an Asian family if they had Ebola and assaulted a Brazilian hotel employee, calling her a 'bloody foreigner'.
7501
It's now been revealed that X Factor finalist and pop star Ella Henderson has joined forces with dry shampoo brand Batiste.
7502
Attack: Police are hunting the owner of a 'Staffy-type' dog after a four-year-old girl suffered bite wounds to the face (file picture)
7503
Residents of Delhi’s Turkman Gate, where 40-year-old Shahnawaz was thrashed to death on Sunday night, allege that main accused Khalid Amin alias Amin Pahalwan belongs to a family of goons, and all his 17 brothers are involved in illegal activities.
7504
Last year more than 100 McDonald's employees, including Alvarez, who were part of Fight For $15 were arrested after they protested a McDonald's shareholder meeting to demand the $15 an hour wage .
7505
Prosecutors allege that Walters, a driving test examiner, deliberately steered his Mitsubishi L200 off the motorway after his wife said she wanted a divorce and made allegations of domestic abuse.
7506
The Muslim couple's mosque at Holland Park, Brisbane have graciously offered to pay for her to fly to the Gold Coast and tour the mosque for a day.
7507
Cousins was supposed to appear in court to face reckless driving charges on Wednesday morning but he failed to show up.
Cousins retired from the AFL in 2010.
7508
Hopkins, who has been outspoken about weight in the past, tweeted: 'Chubsters, quit vandalising Protein World ads and get your a*** running on the road.
7509
Chelsea's Eden Hazard and Arsenal's Santi Cazorla are set to reach a Premier League milestone this weekend when they each make their 100th appearance.
VERDICT: HAZARD .
7510
Only yesterday, Ethiopian officials revealed that the 30 Christians filmed being beheaded and shot by Islamic State militants in Libya were likely to have been desperate migrants trying to reach Europe and even Britain.
7511
Patrick says he has since made a 'fantastic recovery.'
Barry Lyttle (pictured left) has pleaded guilty to causing his brother Patrick (right) grievous bodily harm .
7512
For Tory candidates, the third most important issue was spending and the deficit (35 per cent), jobs (31 per cent), education (27 per cent) and the relationship with the EU (19 per cent).
7513
Boeing has just filed a patent for a 'transport vehicle upright sleep support system' known as a 'cuddle chair' It looks like a backpack and fastens to the back of the headrest to allow passengers to lean forward and rest their face and chest on the contraption.
7514
The product, Phynova Joint and Muscle Relief, contains sigesbeckia, a herb traditionally used to treat aches and pains caused by arthritis.
7515
To shoot 14 under, the lowest two-round score at Augusta, and equal to the best 36-hole score recorded at a major championship, isn’t boring.
7516
Dell 'Super Dell' Schanze, 45, was sentenced to one year of probation on Friday after pleading guilty to two misdemeanor counts, knowingly using an aircraft to harass wildlife and pursuing a migratory bird, according to the Salt Lake Tribune.
7517
Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure is a dream target for Inter Milan, according to general director Marco Fassone.
'We need to understand what he wants.
7518
Bangladeshi politician Kamal resigned after voicing his disquiet at umpiring decisions in his country's World Cup quarter-final defeat against India in Melbourne last month.
7519
Greystone Park became one of the largest asylums, housing 7,500 patients, and became known for high numbers of rapes and suicides .
7520
In an article for the Observer addressed to Mr Miliband she wrote: ‘If together our parties have the parliamentary numbers required after 7 May, and regardless of which is the biggest party, will he and Labour join with us in locking David Cameron out of Downing Street?’
7521
George Davon Kennedy of DeKalb, Georgia, a student at Middle Tennessee State University, was taken in Tuesday night as police believe he is one of the men caught on video assaulting a woman in Panama City .
7522
Speaking for the first time in detail about the incident that resulted in his sacking from the Top Gear show, 55-year-old Clarkson said being given the warning was one of the most stressful experiences of his life.
7523
Texting at the wheel is dangerous for drivers because it slows down their reaction times .
A study last year found sending a text message delays reaction times by 37 per cent.
7524
Graziano Pelle was given a yellow card by referee Kevin Friend in the first half for a clash with Alex Bruce but the Hull City manager could not believe the Southampton striker remained on the field.
7525
World Snooker chairman Barry Hearn has ruled out awarding a season-long tour wild card to Reanne Evans.
'She has had a card before and lost it.
7526
The Archbishop of Canterbury (above) yesterday called on Christians to use non-violent means of resistance when faced with persecution by extremists - days after an attack in Kenya killed 150 people .
7527
'By fitting myself into awkward places and positions I questioned where, how, and why, I fit into the family structure,' Marcus said in a statement.
7528
Bayer Leverkusen defender Emir Spahic could face a lengthy ban after video footage emerged appearing to show him fighting and aiming a headbutt at stewards after a defeat by Bayern Munich on Wednesday night.
7529
What happened?
How'd it happen?
The incident happened at 3:15 p.m. but he was left unchecked by the guards until 9:45 p.m. that night, she said.
7530
In an interview with MailOnline, Mr Clegg said Mr Farage's 'mask is slipping' to reveal a man uncomfortable talking about people who are not white 'lashing out' in a scrabble for headlines.
7531
Philipp Lahm has given former Bayern Munich team-mate Owen Hargreaves an insight into the meticulous approach of  manager Pep Guardiola ahead of the club's Champions League quarter-final tie against Porto.
7532
Mr Priestley, 59, said he remains tormented by the thought his wife might have survived had paramedics reached her sooner on the afternoon of Saturday, September 30, last year.
7533
He began his affair with his second wife Philippa (right) in 2011 - while he and his first wife were trying for a baby, pictured together outside Chichester Crown Court yesterday .
7534
Huge, bloodthirsty crowds are seen in the desert clearing where the group of executioners made a display of hugging the blindfolded couple and telling them they were forgiven of their 'sins', before pummeling them to death with hundreds of fist-sized rocks.
7535
Footage shows the skater confidently sailing down a concrete slope in Santa Monica, Los Angeles, before he loses balance and falls headfirst.
7536
Terrifying:
Astonishingly, the two workers who were stuck in the platform only suffered minor injuries.
Authorities said they were investigating the incident.
7537
Rangers boss Stuart McCall hopes injured Newcastle winger Shane Ferguson could play a surprise role in the club's play-off bid.
7538
Ethnically profiled:
According to Hebshi's Twiiter, she is a mother of twin boys and works as a yoga instructor and freelance writer.
7539
A woman died instantly on Wednesday after she drove her SUV around an active crossing gate and collided with an Amtrak Crescent train in Meridian, Mississippi (stock image)
7540
West Indies coach Sir Curtly Ambrose (far left) with Sir Viv Richards (second left) before the start of play .
Gayle hit 21 in a Royal Challengers Bangalore loss.
7541
There were no other specific threats to Anzac Day events in other cities, but Mr Abbott said there would be a strong police presence across Australia nonetheless.
7542
Jailed millionaire Robert Durst has been absolved of state gun charges in Louisiana.
He will now face federal charges, which lawyers believe he can win, before a murder trial in California .
7543
Positioned on the doorstep of Newtown's buzzing strip, the quirky haven is a short walk to parks, cafes and public transport on King Street in Sydney's trendy inner west.
7544
Tony Degrafreed, of Indianapolis, Indiana, has been charged with murder for allegedly beating to death wife Rebecca Degrafreed, 47, at their home on July 20, 2014.
7545
Scroll down for video .
Daniel's parents, Denise and Bruce Morcombe, desperately searched for their son for almost eight years before Cowan's arrest .
7546
Harry Kane should not go to the Under-21 European Championship with England this summer, instead saving himself for Roy Hodgson's first team, according to Kenny Dalglish.
7547
The teenager from the Henan province in central China appears to have had surgery on her jaw, chin and eyes .
Others adopt for double jaw realignment surgery.
7548
Laura Robson took the opportunity to cool down in the Florida heat on Thursday while she dipped in an ice bath as the British tennis nears a return to action after more than a year off the court.
7549
Ronda Blaylock (above) was just 14-years-old in 1980 when she was found stabbed to death and brutally assaulted .
We are coming for you.'
7550
Umpires ejected a total of five players from both teams after the fight in the seventh inning of Thursday's game at Chicago's U.S. Cellular Field,  Illinois.
7551
French officials said the illicit drugs, worth more than €1.3million (£950,000) in street value, were discovered in a suitcase that arrived at the airport in Nice on a flight from the Dominican Republic.
7552
The global tour of the motoring looked like it faced the axe following Clarkson's hotel fracas with producer Oisin Tymon over a steak dinner .
7553
The pink touches from this season's shirts will also be dropped, in a return to classic Real Madrid jerseys, although the away kit will feature yellow trim and a greyed-out badge .
7554
The unnamed child from Medina, Ohio, gave out $100 notes in the classroom before going to a friend's house after school, where he also showered adults with cash, police said.
7555
Former Manchester United midfielder Scholes hailed Sterling as a good player but says he does not score enough goals and needs to focus on playing every week rather than move to a bigger club and not play.
7556
William was supposedly fond of cottage pie and peas, poached chicken and rice and fish cakes as children while both princes were fond of 'quintessentially British comfort food' and their favourite was jam roly-poly .
7557
Swansea City vs Everton (12.45pm) Southampton vs Hull City (3pm) Sunderland vs Crystal Palace (3pm)
West Ham United vs Stoke City (3pm) Burnley vs Arsenal (5.30pm)
7558
Manchester City may have big plans to revamp the team in the summer, with Yaya Toure and Samir Nasri among the high-profile casualties, but what if Liverpool reel them in over the next six matches?
7559
Christopher Plaskon has been charged with murder as an adult over the death of Maren Sanchez, a friend who was killed last year in a hallway of Jonathan Law High School in Milford.
7560
Meanwhile, Luis Enrique's side relentless march towards reclaiming the La Liga title moved another step closer on Wednesday evening following a 4-0 hammering of Almeria - with Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez scoring the picks of the goals.
7561
Cressida Bonas, who found fame as Prince Harry's girlfriend, has been unveiled as Mulberry's new ambassador and showcases the luxury fashion house's designs and accessories in a new shoot .
Visit site .
7562
Rescued:
Xie Shisheng, who was just 16 years old when was imprisoned by the mill owner, was found by police in small dark room by police .
7563
B&M bargains grew its sales by 66 per cent to £1.3 billion last year and Poundland's sales grew 13 per cent to £998 million in the same period.
7564
Managers: Garry Monk (Swansea), Steve Bruce (Hull) Head-to-head league record: Swansea wins 28, draws 16, Hull wins 23 .
Key match stats (supplied by Opta)
7565
Nigel Farage's controversial claim that foreign nationals with HIV should not be treated on the NHS was part of what insiders called a ‘shock and awful’ strategy.
7566
Ryan Bertrand believes he deserves to be higher up the England pecking order and has pledged to prove his worth to manager Roy Hodgson.
7567
Patrick Bamford has scored 19 goals for Middlesbrough this season and is the Championship's Player of the Year.
The same cannot be said of Diego Costa at Chelsea.
7568
A spokesman for Prince Harry said he had wanted to come to Australia on a military exchange for some time, and he was excited for a 'challenging and hectic' schedule.
7569
'It was really unfair, and it kind of felt racist,' Ahmad said.
Because of his stunt, prom has been ruined for Ibrahim and his date Rilea Wolfe .
7570
After his killing spree, the gunman managed to evade police and fled the courthouse on his motorbike, reaching the town of Vimercate 15 miles from Milan before being arrested.
7571
The  footage of Jesse O'Brien was taken by his mother Heidi, 37, to encourage the brave youngster to take the vast volume of drugs he has to consume every single day to battle his terminal illness.
7572
Dawson, who's been teaching OM for eight years, explains: 'It's a 15 minute partner practice that two people can do together to increase connection, vitality, wellness and to cultivate a greater connection between them.
7573
Yulia Tarbath, 33, who is originally from Surrey but moved to Bali with her husband Paul in 2009, led a raw vegan diet - consisting of massive quantities of fruit, vegetables and juice, as well as hours of running, cycling and lifting weights.
7574
Leinster attempted to capitalise on their numerical advantage and it backfired in the 90th minute as Ian Madigan’s long pass was intercepted by Bryan Habana and the Springbok wing stormed clear to for the game’s only try.
7575
Darlene Feliciano, a manager at a Honolulu Walmart, was out on the Makapuu 'Tom-Tom' trail overlooking Sea Life Park along Kalanianaole Highway with a male friend when she slipped and fell.
7576
Defending champion Maria Sharapova was joined by players including Ana Ivanovic, Caroline Wozniacki, Sabine Lisicki, and Angelique Kerber ahead of their opening matches at the clay court tournament.
7577
Nico Rosberg feels he may have handed Lewis Hamilton a psychological advantage with his post-Chinese Grand Prix outburst.
'It's a thing of the past.
7578
Stock market returns have averaged 16 per cent a year under the Tories compared with just under 9 per cent under Labour and just over 9 per cent under the current Coalition.
7579
A body believed to belong to Jennifer Houle (pictured left, and left with a friend) has been found in the Mississippi River in Minneapolis after she was last seen on a nearby bridge early on Friday morning .
7580
Brown family: Bobbi Kristina's aunt Tina Brown took to her Facebook page echoing a similar statement of Bobby's on Saturday, that has since been taken down .
7581
It uses a process known as 'natural language generation' (NLG)
NLG is the process of producing readable texts in English, or other languages, automatically on a computer.
7582
'It's time for a new way.
A new leader, one you can trust.
One who works for you and, above all, it's time for a new president,' OUT OF THE GATE ALREADY:
7583
The Frenchman, though, knows he will be up against one of the best defensive midfielders around when the Serb Matic aims to close out another triumph for Jose Mourinho's men.
7584
A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'A 33-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman who were arrested on suspicion of shoplifting were advised on April 10 that they would face no further action.'
7585
Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif last week said the reporter faced 'very serious' allegations but it was a matter for Iran's judiciary, insisting the case was free of political interference.
7586
Tony Hunt, from Normanton in Derby, is demanding an apology from police after a neighbour reported his daughter's cat Harry had been hit by a patrol car and 'disposed of'
7587
Zabaleta admits confidence is low with Sunday's derby loss at Manchester United having continued a dismal run which has seen City capitulate in the Barclays Premier League title race.
7588
As for his fashion empire, Perry believes despite his work in TV, as well as linen and Specsaver lines, fashion is his first and foremost love and while he admits he won't stop at one thing, everything has to have synergy with his fashion brand.
7589
Asked by Mr Murphy where she ‘wanted’ Mr Miliband to be prime minister, she said: ‘I’ don’t want David Cameron to be prime minister; I’m offering to help make Ed Miliband prime minister.’
7590
The pair split in November last year after spending months together in California while Westbrook tried to rid herself of drugs.
7591
Her eldest daughter Georgina died from leukaemia in 1998 age 12.
‘I don’t think there is any point in doing that and babies don’t mind having a shawl over their head.’
7592
She might have the physical attributes of a woman but Jennifer Pagonis was in fact born intersex, meaning she is genetically male and has the reproductive organs to match.
7593
Fashion designer Coleen, 28, (left) and singer Nadine, 29, (right) are hoping the shots will encourage women from across the UK, regardless of their age, shape or fitness level, to join the female-only event .
7594
Nonetheless, for naturalists as driven as Alfred Russel Wallace, Henry Bates and Richard Spruce, a paradise is exactly what the Amazon was.
7595
Sky Sports have refused to allow their pundit Thierry Henry to present AP McCoy with his record 20th champion jump jockey title at Sandown on April 25, where the great AP could ride for the last time.
7596
Sheriff Derek O'Carroll spared the Dens star a prison sentence after hearing he had was undergoing counselling through PFA Scotland, the players' union, for a gambling problem in addition to social work sessions.
7597
Medina Luna said that Cuyun had made his fellow gang members 'vomit blood' at Las Gaviotas, which means 'The Seagulls' , according to Siglo 21.
7598
At the rally in Warrington, Ed Miliband told supporters a Labour government would 'get Britain building again'.
Unlocking £5 billion for 125,000 homes.
7599
Mr Clegg told MailOnline: 'The Liberal Democrats have spent many years campaigning for an end to the stigma around mental health.
7600
The brothers of men convicted of sex offences are five times more likely than average to commit similar crimes, a study found.
he said.
7601
At least 34 people were arrested after hundreds of protesters gathered in New York City on Tuesday night to march against police brutality.
7602
Mexican artist Frida Kahlo (pictured) wrote passionate love letters to Jose Bartoli from 1946 and 1949 while she was married to muralist Diego Rivera .
7603
In attendance: Roy Emerson, 78, who owns 28 major singles and doubles championships, is also a big fan and makes an annual appearance at the tournament .
7604
The 18-year-old striker came off the bench to score an impressive first goal of his senior career at Brentford on East Monday.
7605
The video maker, named Meo Madeley, can then be heard laughing as the bearded dragon becomes even more animated and chases the dog in a circle.
7606
The Russian Tennis Federation has confirmed that Maria Sharapova will play for her country against Germany in the Fed Cup semi-finals this month.
7607
The pilot of the  Piper PA-32 was apparently attempting to make an emergency landing after taking off from Punta Cana when the plane struck the ground in a golf course adjacent to the airport and burst into flames .
7608
Far from being the loyal husband she believed him to be, Andrew O’Clee, 36, had secretly moved in with finance manager Philippa Campbell, who lived 40 miles away.
7609
President Milos Zeman has been criticised by Ambassador Andrew Schapiro over his plans to attend the annual parade in Moscow, marking the Allied win  at the Western front in 1945, despite the crisis in Ukraine.
7610
He began his Barca career on the right with Messi playing through the middle but admitted last week that in one game Messi switched places with him and told him to stay through the middle.
7611
Home Secretary Theresa May said the Tory manifesto will spell out plans to negotiate a new deal with Europe, including curbing access to benefits.
7612
Tony Little, head at Eton College, has previously said that single sex schools allow children to retain their 'innocence'
7613
Bap!
Bap!'
'The second time as he's going down.
He crumpled onto the floor in front of his bed and I hit him again, Bap! same place.
He was dead.
7614
Landlord Richard Stevenson and landlady Christy Jamieson of the Admiral Rodney in Nottingham with ransom letters sent to the pub  following the 'kidnapping' of their owl ornament .
7615
For those in the capital looking for a refreshing dip, Brockwell Lido is a 50-metre-long pool and another 1930s Art Deco triumph.
7616
Ferrero said Balotelli should be put on a diet of bread and water and given a Bianchina (a small car from the 1960s) instead of a Ferrari .
7617
Police in Canada have also charged Joanna Flynn, a former nurse at Georgian Bay General Hospital in Ontario, with criminal negligence causing death.
7618
Nikki Balovich had taken off her diamond-encrusted silver ring as she was pregnant and her fingers were swollen.
'It’s been so long, but I had a gut feeling.
7619
Dani Carvajal was on the end of some tough love from team-mates Sergio Ramos, Isco and Nacho as the Madrid stars play-fought much to the amusement those watching on.
7620
Behind bars: Hengshui No.2 Middle school is accused of making itself look like a prison in order to prevent students from committing suicide .
7621
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini has the most difficult job in football, according to West Ham boss Sam Allardyce.
7622
When these are placed in a clip on module (B) that attaches to a iPhone camera (C) the microbeads produce distinctive diffraction patterns when they clump around a diseased cell (top right)
7623
The Persian phrase 'ended' was scrawled on the scrap of paper and the discovery of a secret code and a woman's telephone number in the book where the paper came from .
7624
Predicted results: Five points from seven games .
Southampton (H) - L .
Predicted results: Seven points from six games .
Southampton (A) - L .
Arsenal (H) - L .
7625
Carlos Tevez opened the scoring shortly before the interval and Roberto Pereyra added a second in stoppage time as the Turin giants maintained their 14-point lead at the top with nine games to go.
7626
A nine-year-old girl was attacked by a lion that was being walked like a dog by circus entertainers who had brought their show to a quiet Siberian village.
7627
Music makers:
The Monkees were put together by music executives in 1966 to star in a TV comedy and to be the U.S. answer to The Beatles.
7628
'I didn't even know about this Belle Gibson lady,' she said.
'I know I can sleep at night and in my heart I am doing what I know to be right.'
7629
In pain: Marla was filled with pain after a blood clot dislodged in her leg and traveled to her lung during her trip to Houston, Texas to see Dr Nowzaradan .
7630
Nigel Farage caused controversy at the televised leaders’ debate last week by attacking the high cost of giving anti-retroviral drugs to sufferers not born in Britain.
7631
German legend Franz Beckenbauer has accused Bayern Munich stars of playing as if they had taken 'sleeping pills' in their midweek defeat by Porto.
7632
As the election campaign slowed to mark the Easter weekend, the Prime Minister hailed the work of the Church and condemned the persecution of Christians following the massacre in  Kenya.
7633
Scroll down and you'll eventually find your first female face: none other than Barbie, 'CEO Barbie' to be precise, a doll which first appeared in the Eighties, dressed in a miniskirt and clutching a briefcase.
7634
One-year-old Anna and six-year-old Indi have been thrilling crowds at surfing competitions for dogs after taking to the sport like a duck to water.
7635
Fabio Borini may not have had much success climbing up the pecking order in the Liverpool attack but the Italian striker had no problems scaling the heights at Delamere Forest Park on Tuesday.
7636
Detective Constable Nick Campbell said: 'I have been to many burglary crime scenes over the years, but this incident stands out as one of the worst examples of mindless destruction that I have seen during my career'
7637
France's biggest handball star Nikola Karabatic will stand trial for fraud over his suspected involvement in an illegal betting case.
7638
Maybe I could do a little better with everything, but I think he played well today.'
Serena Williams celebrates after beating Simona Halep 6-2, 4-6, 7-5 in her semi-final match .
7639
Not guilty: Cook County Judge Dennis Porter, cleared 46-year-old Officer Dante Servin (left) who shot Rekia Boyd, 22, (right) dead in Chicago in March 2012 .
7640
Hinckley (left) shot Reagan and three others, including White House press secretary James Brady, in a bid to impress actress Jodie Foster in 1981 (right)
7641
Tim and Anastasia, in apartment 2 are pairing with Biggin & Scott's Russell Cambridge, who looked after the Jolly's Glasshouse apartment, and Ayden and Jess in apartment 3 are going with Adam Joske of Gary Peer & Associates, with Stuart Benson as auctioneer.
7642
Now and then: Twiggy's short cropped haircut helped propel her to stardom in the swinging Sixties, but nearly 50 years later, she is embracing her longer locks and will not be pressured into cutting them short .
7643
Marco Rubio told Face The Nation he believes people are born with a sexual preference, but insisted same-sex marriage should not be a constitutional right .
7644
A mother-of-five has been convicted of killing her newborn baby girl by filling her mouth with toilet paper and hiding her body in a suitcase.
7645
Mr Czerniecki (pictured) has contacted the local council and Parks Victoria in hopes of notifying the owners of the dogs about what they had done, but he claims they're unwilling to help .
7646
A Spanish expert, Dr Celia Sanchez-Ramos, has found the LED screens found in most electronic devices can harm the retina - the light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye - and may even lead to partial blindness.
7647
SpaceX has released dramatic footage of its third attempt to land a rocket booster on a drone barge in the Atlantic Ocean .
Dragon enroute to Space Station.
7648
'Utilising state-of-the-art multi aperture imaging technology that combines innovative image processing [with] advanced sensor and optics technology, our cameras set new standards for image quality parameters such as low light performance, refocusing and more,' said the firm.
7649
Bradley Neil admitted he needed to give himself a 'kick up the arse' after missing the cut on his Masters debut at Augusta National.
7650
Revenge:
His reaction came two years after the TV reporter said: 'He mocking anyone now?' after he was suspended for failing a drugs test.
7651
The woman was followed outside by her attacker but fought him off again using her martial arts skills .
7652
Dunford had denied two charges of harassment without violence but was found guilty at an earlier hearing and today told to pay a £120 victim surcharge and £920 in costs.
7653
The researchers examined the views of both primary and secondary school teachers to see if their opinions of fictional pupils were altered by racial stereotypes and found they tended to judge black students more harshly .
7654
Mary Cartwright revisited Drakelow Underground Factory in Kidderminster, Worcestershire, where more than 700 people worked during the war (right)  to produce aircraft engines.
7655
Sabrina Osterkamp was last seen leaving her home in Naracoorte at about midday on Sunday when she was driving a friend's car about 110km south to Mount Gambier in  South Australia's southeast.
7656
The British brand has become a global success with sales up 10 per cent for the six months to the end of March compared to the year before, taking from up to £1.42 billion .
7657
Hundreds of residents were evacuated from their homes in the surrounding area after the blast on Monday night, while 177 fire engines and 829 firefighters battled the blaze.
7658
Amira Abase, 15, left Bethnal Green with Shamima Begum 15, and Kadiza Sultana, 16, in February, and is believed to  be living in the Syrian city of Raqqa.
7659
The 25-year-old is West Ham's runaway top scorer this season with 12 goals and was forced off after 59 minutes during their 1-1 draw at home.
7660
The gatehouse, built as a memorial to Queen Victoria, was sold in 2012 after a Spanish hotel developer paid £60 million to buy it from the government.
7661
Adams failed to show for his post-match press conference after the 3-0 loss by Oxford while supporters demonstrated outside the ground, calling for the manager to leave.
7662
Sam Smith is looking better than ever after losing three stone over the last year, he regularly posts pictures of himself to his Instagram account .
7663
Chelsea, 10 points ahead of Arsenal with just four games to play, will also face the New York Red Bulls on July 22 and Spanish giants Barcelona six days later in Washington.
7664
Joseph McEnroe, 36, from Carnation, Washington, (pictured in court on Thursday) who murdered six members of his girlfriend's family on Christmas Eve, 2007, is testifying in the penalty phase of his trial in a bid to avoid the death penalty .
7665
Joshua Saunders was arrested on charges including DUI, reckless driving, leaving the scene of an accident and vehicular homicide (above the driveway of the Gainesville, Georgia home)
7666
John Carver has labelled Moussa Sissoko's reckless lunge on Lucas as 'indefensible' as the Newcastle boss refused to make excuses for his captain.
7667
The pair fled New Hampshire in 2004 along with Genevieve Kelley, Mary's mother, during a custody dispute with Mark Nunes, Genevieve's former husband and Mary's father.
7668
A bumper 93 hours of sunshine - up 20 hours on the normal - have brightened Britain already this month, pictured a woman walking her dog through Hove Park in Sussex today .
7669
Ronald Reagan (right) met Mikhail Gorbachev (left) for the first time at a peace summit in Geneva, Switzerland in 1985  and asked for his support in the event of an alien invasion .
7670
Scientists at the University of California, Davis (above) said the women who had been drinking sugary beverages released less cortisol during the maths test than those given the artificially sweetened drinks .
7671
A woman in an unknown city looks out her floor-to-ceiling window into the city and trees below her high-rise apartment building .
7672
A 42-year-old man paralyzed in a Utah neighborhood watch shooting and found guilty of repeatedly having sex with a 17-year-old girl is asking an appeals court to either throw out his conviction or reduce his sentence.
7673
Manny Pacquiao may be aiming to conquer opponent Floyd Mayweather Jnr On May 2, but the boxer first set himself the target of conquering the mountains as he continued his harsh training regime.
7674
Vincent Stanford, 24, is accused of murdering Ms Scott, 26, on Easter Sunday and dumping her body in bushland, just days before she was set to wed fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley.
7675
A fluted band of Kailua Blue, framed by a textured gold rim and a simple gold inner line, appears on all pieces of the service, except the dinner and serving plates.
7676
Kevin Pietersen has lashed out at Graham Gooch for commenting on his attempted England comeback.
Quite how Pietersen's '£comeback' will pan out in the long term is unclear.
7677
Sergio Aguero says the experience of scoring in a Manchester derby is unparalleled.
Aguero believes United striker Radamel Falcao (right) is one of the most gifted players in world football .
7678
And the former Manchester United boss has tipped Barcelona's Brazilian star Neymar to be the next man to challenge for the title of world's best player, competing with Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.
7679
Mark Hughes has revealed talks have opened over a contract extension for in-demand Asmir Begovic following Stoke's 2-1 win over Southampton.
7680
Goals: Tesche 27' Donaldson 43' Rotherham: Martinez, Hunt, Morgan, Broadfoot, Lafferty, Wilson (Bowery 52'), Frecklington, Smallwood (Yates 85'), Pringle, Sammon (Newton 63'), Derbyshire .
7681
Luckily the two jet skiers avoid a dangerous collision thanks to some swift steering skills.
Warning sign: 'Look out, look out!' a man behind the camera can be heard screaming .
7682
Ms Walsh found the ring at the Finns Beach Club in South Kuta, Bali on Tuesday and decided to take to social media to hunt for the owner.
7683
'In a nutshell, the Crown's case is that the defendant told two different funeral directors, at two different times, that there were no objections from anyone, including Mr Barber, to her son being cremated and also signed two forms to the same effect.
7684
Remains of two handymen who had been living on Monica's 20-acre pig ranch (pictured) in Jackson County, Oregon were found in 2014 after she was caught using one victim's food stamps card .
7685
George North has been ordered by a neurologist to take at least one month off after suffering his third concussion in four months playing for Northampton last week.
7686
The world class midfielder took to Twitter to advise that his the 'Bodega Iniesta' vineyard he owns in Castilla-La Mancha can be rented out.
7687
If they do, cash the cheque and come to the Manchester Arena on July 18.
Scott Quigg is desperate to fight Carl Frampton and has offered him £1.5million to do so on July 18 .
7688
Fatal accident site: Olivia Bazlinton, 13, and Charlotte Thompson, 14, were fatally struck Elsenham station, Essex, in December 2005 .
7689
Davion officially became part of the family in February however, when after he and Going celebrated their birthdays, which fall on the same date, they went home and sat around the table for cake with his three siblings and signed the court papers.
7690
Ashley Madison, a Canadian online dating agency which boasts 'life is short, have an affair', is targeting British investors for stock shares because of the UK's supposed 'laissez faire' attitude to extra-marital affairs .
7691
He said he can understand why some people find his work 'a bit ungodly’, but in his opinion, there is nothing worse than ‘art that doesn't affect you at all.
7692
A model of the popular Star Wars character is shown .
From today, Star Wars fans will be able to tweet using new emojis (pictured) exclusive to the social network .
7693
'Then he proceeds to reach down and grab a schooner and he drank from head-to-toe the entire schooner, dribbling little bits on his shirt...
He was proud as punch,' a witness said .
7694
U.S. Rep. Alan Grayson and his wife have agreed to annul their 24-year marriage as they continued talks on a settlement, ending an acrimonious divorce process that had included allegations of bigamy, financial abandonment and battery.
7695
The baby, known as Mary, had been born at Alder Hey Hospital in Liverpool, pictured, but died six months later with traces of cocaine in her stomach .
7696
Mrs Peacock, who lives with her husband Tony and daughters Kacie, six, and Willow, four, in Storrington, West Sussex, has wild-type gastrointestinal cancer, which causes tumours to grow in the stomach and intestines.
7697
The Czech Republic international has fallen behind Belgian shot-stopper Thibaut Courtois in Jose Mourinho's pecking order this season and is expected to leave Stamford Bridge this summer with Arsenal and Liverpool among those linked.
7698
Labour attempted to rebuff a letter from 100 business leaders that criticised the party by publishing its own message calling for a Labour government signed by people ‘from all walks of life’
7699
The unemployment rate for college graduates grew by 1.5per cent in 2014, despite President Obama's promise to reverse the trend (stock photo)
7700
Mourinho has been forced to sell players to balance the books at Chelsea .
I'm not saying it's the best squad.
'We have the best catering and the best drink.
7701
They are followed on the rich list by Adrian and Gillian Bayford, from Haverhill, Suffolk, who won £148,656,000 in August 2012, and an anonymous ticket-holder who scooped £113,019,926 in October 2010.
7702
Bobby Zamora (left) scored QPR's third goal with an astounding lob from a narrow angle against West Brom .
That was a poor decision by the referee.'
7703
In a bizarre addition to the already unusual election memorabilia being sold, Totally Wicked's Red Label has produced five e-cigarette liquids pairing with five of the party leaders.
7704
Taylor Lynn Fast, 21, has been arrested after her daughter Layla was found beaten to death at home - for which she allegedly said a spider was responsible .
7705
One of the brightest stars, Ugaaso Abukar Boocow, has become a celebrity on Instagram, where she is trying to change people’s perceptions with photos and videos that reveal a side of Somalia that most people have never seen.
7706
He's just trying to get himself some publicity.'
Conor McGregor showed off his expensive BMW  640i M Sport convertible on his latest Instagram post .
7707
I can’t imagine it’s going to be in the near future.’
Andrew Flintoff (left) believes Pietersen is now ‘running out of time’ to resurrect his Test career .
7708
Finley's mother Sarah, pictured with him left, said: 'We never thought he would be able to lead an independent life, but now there is no reason why he shouldn't be able to'
7709
Former All Black Mils Muliaina, pictured last night playing in Connacht's 14-7 defeat against Gloucester, was arrested after the game in connection with an allegation of sexual assault in Cardiff from March .
7710
Ivan Rakitic poses alongside his wife Raquel Mauri as the pair enjoy the St George's day celebrations .
7711
An FBI affidavit from November 2014 that was recently unsealed reveals translator Xiaoming Gao (above on left with unknown male) shared information with an alleged Chinese spy .
7712
But United dominated possession  and limited Chelsea to just two shots on target and Mata, who returned to Stamford Bridge for the first time since leaving the club in January last year, claims his side can take many positives from the game.
7713
Thankfully Stokes was able to continue after treatment but was still feeling the injury when he came on to bowl, with England battling for the wickets they desperately needed to justify Alastair Cook’s decision to insert West Indies.
7714
The latest research, by the Department of Urology at the Humanitas Clinical and Research Centre in Milan, involved two dogs sniffing the urine of 900 men - 360 with prostate cancer and 540 without.
7715
England midfielder Fabian Delph fires in Aston Villa's second in the FA Cup semi-final against Liverpool .
Allowed the game to flow and got most calls correct.
7716
Udinese have struggled to deliver at home and have mustered just one win in their last nine games at Friuli stadium.
7717
The Ford van was seen on surveillance tape making its way to the roof of the garage where the woman was told she was going to die by men in ski masks unless she handed over the code for the jewelry store safe .
7718
A spokesman for Cambridgeshire Police today said: 'The search is being undertaken with the full consent of the present landlord, who is not connected with the investigation.'
7719
Scots-born McIndoe dated a string of glamour models, including Helena Fletcher and Emma Frain (pictured)
Yeovil then snapped him up for £25,000 the following year.
7720
Pine Eagle Charter school in Halfway, Oregon was the scene of a surprise 'active shooter' drill that's left teacher Linda McLean with post-traumatic fears years later .
7721
Crystal McNaughton from Long Beach, California, filmed the moment her newborn son Paul started welling up to a rousing song from Glee.
7722
A Qantas jet bound for Perth was forced to turn back to Sydney Airport after a safety light turned on mid-air.
'Engineers are inspecting the aircraft.
7723
Furthermore, given the lack of relationship between depression and the pilot's crime, it was not obviously in the public's interest to know about Lubitz's depression and morally questionable that his medical history of depression has been exposed so freely.
7724
Manchester United left back Luke Shaw (right) chases the ball ahead of Chelsea's Branislav Ivanovic (left)
7725
PSV Eindhoven beat Heerenveen 4-1 to win the Dutch championship on Saturday for the first time in seven seasons.
7726
The outfit was topped off with a dramatic gold hat.
White wedding.'
Fans cheer as the British tennis number one Andy Murray arrives his wedding to fiance Kim Sears .
7727
ACT Education Directorate Director-General Diane Joseph (pictured) said the 'confronting' structure was 'entirely inappropriate and unacceptable'
7728
From villages under boulders in Portugal, to floating villages in Peru, these dwellings are hidden away from the rest of the world.
Giant honeycomb!
7729
Shannon landed a three-fight deal to train Hatton through his ill-fated comeback after guiding Matthew Hatton to a world title shot.
7730
Orana Wildlife Park in New Zealand's Christchurch is one of the few zoos in the world which has installed a moving cage to bring spectators as close as possible to lions in an open habitat.
7731
Mukalla was previously under control of forces loyal to President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi, however it is not clear what resistance to the terrorists remains after he fled the capital Sana'a to Saudi Arabia as rebels launched an attack on his palace.
7732
A car plunged off a road into Los Angeles harbor on Thursday, and two children pulled from the submerged vehicle were hospitalized in grave condition until one later died .
7733
'We will not cast skinny models or skeletal frames, we look for real, active and healthy women - and  not just with the fit girls but for our catwalk models too,' says Katinka.
7734
Everyone is watching Valencia’s 19-year-old left back Jose Luis Gaya with Manchester City, Arsenal and Chelsea hoping to snatch him from under Real Madrid’s nose this summer.
7735
Sand as soft as flour and cerulean sea: Penny is hard pushed to find fault with her week in the Maldives .
The days unwind quietly.
7736
Klopp and Dortmund chief executive Hans-Joachim Watzke confirmed in a press conference reports that he will officially leave at the end of June after seven successful years at the club.
7737
Areas with the fewest number of flashes each year are grey and purple; areas with the largest number of lightning flashes - as many as 150 per year per square kilometer (0.4 square miles) - are bright pink.
7738
A spokesperson for the Irish Aviation Authority told MailOnline Travel: 'The IAA is currently investigating the incident in question.
7739
Fernando Torres has played with some great players over the years but the on-loan Atletico Madrid striker regards Steven Gerrard as the best.
7740
I have herpes: Ella Dawson has genital herpes and she is sharing her story so that less people with the virus can feel the guilt and shame that sometimes accompanies the common skin condition .
7741
Miss Blakeway's friend took to a memorial page on Facebook to pay tribute to the 17-year-old who was found dead .
Another friend pays tribute to the A-level student.
7742
Despite being in the middle of the Dordogne valley, the castle, with its turrets and defensive wall is only 15 minutes from the local airport, which offers regular flights to London City and London Stansted airports.
7743
The BBC has been accused of left-wing bias after David Cameron received a hostile reaction while being interviewed on Radio 1, including from host Chris Smith (right) who bet £1,000 he wouldn't win a majority .
7744
Police had thought he was in his car (pictured), but his body has now been found down a well.
Mr King's 28-year-old neighbour is now in custody being questioned about his death .
7745
Neymar's first-half brace ensured Barcelona progressed to the Champions League semi-finals with a comprehensive victory.
7746
Lawrence Dallaglio views the poor performance of English clubs in Europe as a 'crisis' for French rugby rather than evidence of a gulf in class between the Aviva Premiership and Top 14.
7747
But the men continued to demand more money before Lewis struck the pensioner twice with a metal bar, leaving her covered in blood, prosecutor Philip Evans said.
7748
Terri Hernandez says she grew close to Ursula Lloyd, the mother of Odin Lloyd over the trial, even thinking about her when the jury came back with their first degree murder conviction.
7749
'I believe we are going to have strong indications of life beyond Earth in the next decade and definitive evidence in the next 10 to 20 years,' said Ellen Stofan, chief scientist for Nasa, (pictured) at a Washington panel discussion .
7750
Adrian Peterson has plenty to chew over but the Minnesota Vikings do not want to trade their star back .
'We have no plans to trade Adrian,' he said, definitively.
7751
City are willing to use France international Nasri and Bosnia forward Edin Dzeko as bait in a deal to sign Juventus midfielder Paul Pogba.
7752
Principal at Burlington Danes Academy Michael Ribton, pictured above (left) helping a pupil to revise, says parents should pin their offspring's revision timetable on the fridge and really engage with them during the lead up to the stressful exam period .
7753
Video footage has emerged which appears to show Manchester City supporters singing a vile song about the Munich Air Disaster outside Old Trafford.
7754
Mario Gomez's predatory instincts and a late goal by substitute Juan Vargas ensured Fiorentina qualified for the Europa League semi-finals.
7755
A week before students are due to return to class after school holidays, mothers have taken to a community Facebook page to talk about how the 26-year-old's murder has affected their kids.
A week before students are due to return to class after school holidays, mothers have taken to a community Facebook page to talk about how the 26-year-old's murder has affected their children .
7756
Wilford is on the road to recovery after being found stabbed in Cass County, North Dakota .
Recovery: Wilford needed more than 50 stitches after he was found in a critical condition .
7757
Santa Fe police say a man tossed a banana peel at Dave Chappelle during a show in New Mexico Monday, hitting in the comedian in the leg.
7758
SS Sergeant Oskar Groening - known as 'the bookkeeper of Auschwitz' - is set to go on trial charged with complicity in the killing of 300,000 Jews at the Nazi extermination camp .
7759
Dashcam footage released on Thursday shows Walter Scott running away from his car minutes before he is shot dead by Officer Michael Sager.
7760
The new extradition treaty and an intelligence-sharing agreement was struck on Wednesday during a meeting between Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu in the Turkish capital Ankara.
7761
A 23-year-old man beat his girlfriend's 18-month-old son to death for urinating him as he changed the boy's diaper, according to police.
7762
He has scored three goals in seven games for England compared with three in 21 Premier League starts for Spurs.
He is, in the manger's words, a game-changer.
7763
The robot, called BB-8 (left) stars in the eagerly anticipated film Star Wars: The Force Awakens and took to the stage at Star Wars Celebration convention in Anaheim, California, where it literally ran rings around retro droid R2-D2 (pictured right)
7764
Chinese prosecutors are reportedly seeking the death penalty against jockey Anthony Roger Bannister, 43, from Adelaide, who was charged with allegedly attempting to smuggle 3kg of methamphetamine from Guangzhou to Australia.
7765
Fabio Capello and Terry Venables were two conspicuous names missing from the list of England managers who signed the letter prepared by PR agency Milltown backing FA chairman Greg Dyke’s campaign to boost home-grown talent.
7766
The Andrakas encouraged their boys to think about how the world worked: school runs were fiercely competitive as Jack and Luke tried to solve science questions fired at them by their mother.
7767
Sat in a shallow bath, the large rodent sits perfectly still while three energetic ducklings stand on its head and body.
7768
Perth and Melbourne also saw extremely low resale losses of 5.5 percent and 5.6 percent respectively.
Melbourne properties have seen extremely low resale losses of 5.6 percent .
7769
Available for iOS, Android and Windows Phone devices, the description of the game in stores reads: ‘No one really knows what none* game is about.’
7770
The drama began when Dawn, who has previously appeared on the ITV talk show, discovered that £207 set aside for a £500 grave stone had disappeared.
7771
The first of what he dubbed his 'Premier League policies', which the party would insist upon as a condition of propping up a government, is a £5billion commitment to protect the entire education budget in real terms.
7772
When he arrives in Iraq, Mr Costa will join up with Kurdish fighters and other foreign ex-servicemen who have joined the battle against the barbaric Islamists (file picture)
7773
Mike and Susan Fortuna, of Shelburne, sued last week, accusing Allergan of failing to warn of dangers, negligence and breach of the Vermont Consumer Fraud Act in treating their 21-year-old daughter, Mandy Fortuna.
7774
Local resident Thomas Jones explained how many neighbours to the training complex wanted a designated area for fans to be able to watch the players and did not want a screen put up.
7775
Piermayr is a free agent and had been playing for Colorado Rapids.
Thomas Piermayr (left, in action for the Colorado Rapids) tries to tackle Obafemi Martins last year .
7776
Green party leader Natalie Bennett has distanced herself from the bizarre blog posts of her boyfriend Jim Jepps, insisting he is a 'private individual not involved in party politics'
7777
But last night Judge Kenneth Marra ordered her claims that she was a ‘sex slave’ to Epstein and was forced to have sex with the Duke of York three times should be ‘struck from the record’.
7778
At least six men were arrested in California and Minnesota by the FBI on Sunday after a joint terrorism task force investigation into youths who traveled or tried to travel to Syria to join ISIS.
7779
you do want you need to do to get what you want': Leading psychologist Jo Lamble says that Gibson's actions point to both a narcissism disorder and anti-social personality disorder .
7780
As many as 1.9 million foreigners travelling on short term visas are predicted to be spending time Down Under at any one time throughout this year.
7781
Scroll down for video .
Terrifying:
Seconds later, it can be seen crashing down on to its side sending the men on the roof rack flying.
7782
Bayern Munich legend Franz Beckenbauer believes Jurgen Klopp could succeed Pep Guardiola at the Allianz Arena.
I hope for a long time, but Klopp would be considered.
7783
Singleton bought 80 Beach Drive for a suburb record of $4.25 million in late 2007, and the agents expect bidding for the May 9 auction to will kick off at $3.5 million, reports Property Observer.
7784
Piers Morgan says Arsenal should sack Arsene Wenger and replace him with Jurgen Klopp now that the Borussia Dortmund manager has announced his intention to leave the German club in the summer.
7785
Jade Ruthven, 33, of Perth, Western Australia, was shocked when she found the scathing note claiming to be from ‘a few of the girls’, cruelly criticising her for posting photos of her six-month-old daughter Addison on Facebook.
7786
Mr Miah added: ‘You tell the police everything you know but they seem to do nothing to get Sharmeena back.
I don’t know a Sharmeena’ and put the phone down.
7787
Ever since their infamous interview in 1999 following the Bill Clinton scandal Barbara Walters has always believed Monica got the short end of the stick in the court of public opinion and has tirelessly defended her on the show over the years .
7788
The 2005 Brownlow medallist was arrested on March 11 after allegedly leading police on a low speed chase from Bicton to Mosman Park .
7789
Last year the World Health Organisation said the number of caesarean surgeries needed to drop to 10 to 15 per cent of births .
7790
Gaioz Nigalidze, the current Georgian champion, was expelled from the Dubai Open Chess tournament when he was found using his phone in the middle of a match.
7791
Stuart Broad came through an injury scare and Jonny Bairstow fell just short of a century against his own team-mates as England's Test warm-ups descended into a glorified training drill.
7792
A 30-year-old Darwin man is accused of using someone else's employee registration number to pose as a fake nurse at the Aurukun Primary Health Centre on Cape York during February and March (file photo)
7793
Fulham will sound out Brentford manager Mark Warburton about taking over at Craven Cottage with owner Shahid Khan planning to release a budget of £20million to spend on new players.
7794
You will not find many United fans who pine for the days when Martin Edwards, son of a Salford butcher, ruled the roost at Old Trafford.
Fans .
7795
Jericho Scott, 16, who became an internet star after being told he couldn't pitch for his Little League team because he had a 40mph fastball at age nine, was shot dead in New Haven early on Sunday.
7796
The sale of Lloyds shares would be the biggest privatisation since the 1980s when Mrs Thatcher’s government sold £3.9 billion of BT shares and £5.6 billion of British Gas shares in the famous ‘Tell Sid’ campaign.
7797
She had recently left her position as director of design at the V&A (pictured), where she led the planning and implementation of FuturePlan, an on-going restoration and redesign programme of its galleries .
7798
Jane Ashcroft's modern detached home (left) in the Midlands was bought for £750,000 in 2005 while David Bennett's detached farmhouse (right) in rural Herefordshire was bought for £295,000 in 2003 .
7799
Pharaoh's Daughters advertises itself as an agency that helps 'promising young strippers and exotic dancers' find work 'in prestigious gentlemen's clubs'
7800
Contrast:
'The Audley Square project will create a new luxury village for Mayfair and will rival One Hyde Park as London's best luxury address.'
7801
George Lucas has unveiled plans to build an affordable housing complex on the plot of land in Lucas Valley, Bay Area, which his neighbors are determined to leave untouched .
7802
Marsha Yumi Perry (above), 36, was arrested on Friday on accusations of felony hit-and-run, driving with a suspended license and on a misdemeanor warrant after she allegedly struck a five-year-old boy with her car .
7803
The 23-year-old younger half-brother of Lewis, who suffers from the neurological condition cerebral palsy, posted the first image above image on his facebook page, with the caption: 'Had a great day today cruising with my bro in LA.
7804
The family are planning another party in the summer to celebrate without her cast .
She says the family are planning another party in the summer to celebrate without her cast.
7805
’ Bent, who has scored seven goals since going on loan to Derby, also praised Steve McClaren as one of the best managers he has played under.
7806
The face of rock: The members of 30 legendary bands are blended into 30 single faces .
U2 is a bizarre mix of the Irish bunch, as is the Rolling Stones picture.
7807
A month before the tragedy in 2011, a traffic policeman saw the hole and his control room alerted their council counterparts, but the alert was not passed on to the highway inspection team.
7808
Monty Python's Always Look On the Bright Side of Life from the 1979 film the Life of Brian is one of the few tunes you might hear whistled .
7809
Jeremy Peace is ready to shelve the sale of West Bromwich Albion if a deal is not in place by July.
Manager Tony Pulis will be kept informed of developments .
7810
'We're hoping to make a big step forward,' said Perez.
Going into a race, knowing it is going to be very hard without any advantage, is not the easiest for a driver.
7811
Julie Bishop announced this special gift on Thursday and even got up close and personal with the cuddly creatures at Brisbane's Lone Pine Sanctuary.
7812
Carlos added that he learnt something from all the managers he worked under as a player, including the current England boss Roy Hodgson at Inter Milan, and thinks it could be why he finds coaching straightforward.
7813
Wildlife officials in Alaska are going to kill a mother bear and her four cubs after the family started eating out from trash cans in a busy neighborhood.
7814
Her siblings - one-year-old brother Bol and four-year-old twins Madit and Anger - died after their mother Akon Guode crashed her 4WD into a lake at Wyndham Vale in Melbourne's outer west on Wednesday.
7815
Heathrow airport are threatening to strip Qantas of their eight valuable landing spots after they continually arrived late, according to internal memos.
7816
Shows such as Dad’s Army and Hancock’s Half Hour have all fallen foul of the problem, which the BBC blames on the system it uses to record programmes.
7817
Wine experts have created a guide to matching wine with snacks that recommends pairing Pinot Grigio with nachos and Shiraz Rose with salt and vinegar crisps.
7818
Nathan Hughes was clumsy rather than reckless and didn't deserve a three-game ban .
The Webb Ellis Cup visits a school in Toronto as part of the Rugby World Cup Trophy Tour .
7819
The canister was worth about $500, and the vials of semen were worth from $300 to $1,500 apiece.
A $500 canister held vials of semen worth between $300 and $1,500 each .
7820
The majority of women who have breast cancer are routinely given the gruelling drug treatment following removal of the tumour to prevent recurrence.
7821
Reaching 100 Tests as a fast bowler and being on the brink of becoming England’s leading wicket-taker is more about character and the fight in Jimmy than about his skills.
7822
This has been the season in which 21-year-old Harry Kane has announced himself to the world, scoring 20 league goals in a stunning breakthrough season which also included a debut goal for England just 80 seconds after coming on against Lithuania last month.
7823
Jack Wilshere has moved a step closer to recovery from the serious ankle injury that has wrecked his season after completing 90 minutes for Arsenal’s under 21 side.
7824
The clips have earned her nearly 60,000 subscribers, as well as loyal fan base of zit squeezing enthusiasts on Reddit.
Day job:
Family business:
7825
Salford assistant coach Ian Watson is poised to come out of his playing retirement at the age of 38 to answer an SOS from the Red Devils.
7826
However following through on his swing the four-time Masters champion drilled his club into a tree root, causing the 39-year-old to drop his club and give out a painful yell.
7827
Friends today left flowers at the scene and said Miss Shamim, who had the nickname Hyena and was originally from Peterborough, was 'much-loved and the most charming lovely girl in the world'.
7828
With a family history of miscarriage, Rebecca says she has been especially careful throughout her pregnancy, and has been swimming and going to the gym to keep fit.
7829
An Air Canada flight from Germany to Toronto was forced to divert to Shannon Airport in Ireland last night after an 87-year-old woman caused a disturbance on board.
7830
Steve Davis would love to see Jimmy White and Reanne Evans light up the Crucible stage but admits his own swan song hopes look forlorn.
7831
The Sky newsreader has revealed how an Easter holiday outing with her family saw ‘blood and saliva flying’ between her boisterous sons in the backseat – and ended with her six-year-old having a tooth knocked out.
7832
The footage shows a young man, thought to be an Adelaide Power fan, taunting Clarkson as he made his way back to his Adelaide hotel room, before Clarkson pushes the man and grabs his neck.
7833
Nina Anderson, pictured with husband Maurice, 75, searched pawn shops near their house in Portsmouth, Hampshire, after gold and silver necklaces  were taken from her bedroom as she watched TV .
7834
Dr Alec Duncan and his associates from the university's Centre for Marine Science and Technology began investigating a low-frequency underwater sound signal which was recorded west of Rottnest Island just after 1:30 am UTC on March 8.
7835
The first-degree murder conviction carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison without parole in the slaying of Odin Lloyd, a 27-year-old landscaper and amateur weekend football player who was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee.
Hernandez’s mother, Terri, and his fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, cried and gasped when they heard the verdict.
Hernandez mouthed to them the words, 'Be strong.'
7836
Of the 2000 surveyed, 70 per cent said they constantly zone out while in meetings, with the average worker switching off completely after 20 minutes (file picture)
7837
But at the end of a three day inquest into their deaths, coroner Selena Lynch said that despite the family slipping under social services' radar 'nothing could have be done' to foresee the deaths.
7838
Mario Ambarita, 21, took chances with his life when he clambered into the wheel housing of the Garuda Indonesia flight which took off from the main island of Sumatra and flew at 34,000ft to Jakarta.
7839
With Jonathan Trott out without scoring in the first over and captain Alastair Cook failing again Vaughan said: ‘Their footwork and their mindset has been about looking to survive rather than getting on top.’
7840
Six weeks later I started Job Capitol and he became my first investor and mentor.'
'When you're looking for investors, know your financial literacy.
7841
Al-Sibai was a close associate of Egyptian jihadist Adel Abdel Bari, whose son Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary (pictured) is believed to be part of Jihadi John's network in Islamic State .
7842
VERDICT: MISS .
Coutinho and Daniel Sturridge, both signed in January 2013, must be considered 'hits' for Liverpool .
TOTAL MONEY SPENT: £277.3m .
7843
Labour will warn that new official figures show 600 fewer GP surgeries across England are now open in the evening and weekends compared to the last election.
7844
Officer Daniel Jamieson (left) is accused of leaking confidential information about Ben Cousins' arrest in March to his girlfriend Channel 7 Perth news reporter Monique Dirksz .
7845
Rosberg complained during a heated press conference that his Mercedes team-mate Hamilton, the race winner who was sitting next to him as he spoke, had acted ‘selfishly’ in slowing down to such an extent that he (Rosberg) could have been caught by Sebastian Vettel of Ferrari.
7846
Forward Paul Pierce started the overtime with a three-pointer and scored 20 points to lead the Wizards, who let a 15-point lead slip away in the fourth quarter before winning.
7847
Mark's wife (left) is now looking after three young children alone, including Jaiden, one, (center) and said, 'Mark (right) will regret what he did for the rest of his life, because he loved his brother'
7848
Hamilton secured the 36th win of his career in Bahrain and his 21st from pole position.
Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone speaks to Nico Rosberg ahead of the Bahrain Grand Prix .
7849
Pumpkin seeds are rich in vitamins A, K and E, as well as vital minerals and fatty acids, which can help strengthen hair and even help boost hair growth.
7850
A dramatic, frenetic 12 rounds here saw the Irishman sent sprawling in the very first against the dangerous Peter Quillin, the man who vacated the WBO middleweight title Lee won so gloriously in Las Vegas last December before the result was deemed a draw.
7851
Edward Ronayne was given £9,000 in compensation after he claimed he suffered a psychiatric injury from seeing his wife swell up 'like Michelin man' after botched surgery at Liverpool Women's Hospital (pictured)
7852
You know what the players want but you just haven’t got the message across.
A blip against St Johnstone aside, Celtic have been imperious since the turn of the year .
7853
When Mr Davis said he wanted to 'focus on the number of jobs', Mr Miliband had to admit: 'The number of jobs has gone up, but you know, I'm going to let people in this election make the judgment about whether that means the economy's fixed or not.'
7854
In Asia it is Manchester United (red) who just edge the overall support from Chelsea (blue) and Arsenal (yellow) Liverpool dominate Twitter followers in Australia with pockets of support for Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester United as well .
7855
Pakistani boys enjoy jumping on a trampoline, at a makeshift entertainment park set up in a Christian neighborhood for the Christmas holidays .
7856
Current boss Mark Warburton is to leave the club next month after feeling his vision did not match that of Brentford, who are to implement a continental approach to their management structure.
7857
Mr Miliband claimed there were now 600 fewer GP surgeries open during evenings and weekends than before the previous election – which he said was directly contributing to the A&E crisis .
7858
His comments follow revelations that two TSA workers were fired for manipulating body scanners in Denver (security pictured) as part of a scheme to pat men down as they passed through security checks .
7859
High-quality: A meal of  Wye Valley asparagus, soft poached quail egg, confit of tomato and deep friend polenta which is sold at the Yeo Valley staff canteen to staff for £2 .
7860
The 34-year-old midfielder, who started his professional career at West Ham, admits moving to London from his family home in the north east at the age of 15 was one of the biggest challenges he ever faced.
7861
Executed:
Indonesian President Joko Widodo had previously written to the Saudi king asking for the Saudi victim's family to forgive Zainab .
7862
He may not be in action for Real Madrid on Wednesday night against bitter city rivals Atletico, but that has not stopped Gareth Bale getting behind his team.
7863
David Cameron's (left) Conservative party has opened up a four-point lead over Ed Miliband's (right) Labour with 36 per cent of the vote compared to 32 per cent, a new ComRes poll reveals with just two weeks to go .
7864
Terrified: Patrick Henry Kelly, left, allegedly repeatedly violated a restraining order radio host Mary Lucia, right, had taken out against him after he sent her letters, emails and gifts to her home and workplace .
7865
'When they played with 11 v 11 we had good control of the game and produced good chances and enough to win the game.
'I think we fought very hard.
7866
While the gardens, parks and churchyards of towns and cities provide bees with a variety of plants to forage on and an extended flowering season, popular crops such as oilseed rape only bloom for a few weeks (stock image of honey bee shown)
7867
Grimes (left) claimed in her 2012 lawsuit that she suffered lasting injuries during a boozy brawl with Saban (right) in 2010, which evidence showed began over a Facebook post after a night of drinking .
7868
Adelaide Crows captain Taylor 'Tex' Walker was pictured offering a helping hand to seven-year-old Satine Cahill who burst into tears just moments before leading the AFL side onto the field .
7869
His success in rejuvenating Benteke, who has scored six goals in eight games, will be viewed as, perhaps, Sherwood’s most vital contribution if Aston Villa win their Premier League survival battle.
7870
It is unknown which cell block Hernandez will be placed in: solitary confinement; a less harsh but still restricted block, general population; 'lifers block', for those serving life sentences; and the 'kitchen block', for those who work in the prison kitchen .
7871
Dozens of animal welfare complaints have been made after a horse attempted to jump a black Peugeot 206 car with glass still in the windscreen at the event in Greencastle, County Tyrone.
7872
The family of a former civil servant have spoken of their fury after he left his £1million estate to Turkish carer Nermin Kancefer (above), who he met just 14 months before he died .
7873
Chelsea captain John Terry hailed Eden Hazard as one of the world's best players after the Belgian inspired the Blues to a 2-1 win over Stoke.
7874
She said: 'Raised red weals, which are caused by the release of histamine from cells in the skin called mast cells, appear at sights of friction, such as rubbing or stroking of the skin.
7875
The former-four-star recruit was booked into the Alachua County Jail on Sunday on a charge of robbery with a firearm.
He was held on $150,000 bond .
7876
Hudea and her family left the camp two weeks ago; it is thought they headed for Idlib - now in the control of Al-Qaeda affiliate Al-Nusra.
7877
Spectators can look forward to Customs House coated in Jacarandas, a translucent pop up bar in Martin Place, a light origami maze, glowing swings with the Sydney Harbour Bridge as the backdrop and the sails of the Opera House lit up again.
7878
Nick Clegg's wife Miriam Gonzalez Durantez today claimed right-wing Tories probably want to kick her out of the country.
I'm seriously into jam on top.'
7879
'I mean, that's where the people that work at Chipotle, that's where they make a little extra, in the tip jar, and I haven't heard a word about whether or not she visited the tip jar, whether she put anything in it or not.'
7880
Kyle Careford, the other man in the car, is thought to have died just days before turning 21.
One of the many notes left by grieving friends and family at the scene of the crash .
7881
On Monday, at home in Ireland, actress Huberman posted the picture of O'Driscoll and wrote: 'You know when your husband is away in Hong Kong on a very important business trip...'
7882
Nicola Sturgeon today faced claims she would 'paralyse' the UK economy with her demand for another referendum on Scottish independence.
7883
Luke told Yahoo Beauty Luke said the response to his new hair color has been 'overwhelming'.
'I'll be keeping my hair pink for quite some time,' says Luke.
7884
Justin Rose will make his first appearance since finishing second in the Masters in the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, an event where he has an impressive recent record.
7885
On Tuesday, Crowley - who has amassed more than 130,000 followers since becoming Johnny Football’s girlfriend - posted a video on her Instagram page of the Texan socialite enjoying a drunken night out with friends.
7886
I love you so much Hoon.'
Both Indiana University and the national organization of Gamma Phi Beta released statements regarding Wilson's (right) death.
7887
The entire building was initially placed on metal plates, which then had the cylinder-shaped rollers wedged between them.
7888
President Barack Obama announced today $200 million in additional U.S. humanitarian aid to Iraq, but declined to say whether Washington would provide Apache helicopters, drones and other arms to Baghdad to help with the ongoing fight against ISIS.
7889
Mr Rogers, 57, claimed Mr Sharp was 'lying' about being friends with Mr Butcher, adding: 'My uncle had lots of friends and still came to family parties.
7890
International Animal Rescue are keen to stress that Budi's story is not an isolate case and there are 'countless' orangutans currently suffering from neglect in Indonesia .
7891
The Potters' current playing surface is the joint smallest in the Premier League - along with QPR's Loftus Road and Tottenham's White Hart Lane - but Hughes is keen to extend its current 100m x 66m parameter.
7892
'The Duchess herself said mid to late April and there have been plenty of dates bandied around in the media but we've never confirmed anything and we never will.'
7893
Four tries and a total of 30 points from goalkicking winger Josh Mantellato broke brave Bradford's hearts as Hull KR avoided a potential Ladbrokes Challenge Cup banana skin with a 50-30 victory at the Odsal Stadium.
7894
Put simply, manager Manuel Pellegrini has confessed that his club's young Academy players are not yet ready to step into his first-team squad.
7895
Chelsea have checked on Standard Liege left-back Damien Dussaut.
Sampdoria want £8million for the 23-year-old but West Ham may strike a deal for £5m plus add-ons.
7896
Danny Alexander tweeted a picture of himself with his response to the infamous note left in the Treasury by his Labour predecessor Liam Byrne, saying there was 'no money' left .
7897
Today (Easter Sunday) will be our last service.’
Stephen Earl, 61, the rector of the church, was away on holiday yesterday and unavailable to comment.
7898
They found at a busy asphalted road through the Sebitoli area of Kibale National Park in Uganda, the chimps have learned to look both ways before crossing.
7899
Matt O’Connor's own-goal turned his team's 3-2 lead into a 3-3 tie and led to their defeat in Boston on Saturday .
Despite the mistake, the Friars took the trophy.
7900
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce is not bothered by how Manchester City will react to their slump, only that his own players produce the goods at the Etihad Stadium on Sunday
7901
The Scottish Nationalists, led by Nicola Sturgeon, have threatened to paralyse the UK government by blocking ‘any bit of spending’ they do not agree with .
7902
Death in the street: The unnamed woman, believed to be 25 to 45 years old, was discovered lying unconscious March 22 in the area near Shore Parkway and 26th Avenue in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn .
7903
The match came to halt on 19 minutes when the midfielder's ankle appeared to have twisted 180 degrees after chasing down the ball - much to the horror of his team-mates.
7904
Jimmy White's bid to play in the World Snooker Championship for the first time since 2006 ended on Monday as he crashed to defeat by Matthew Selt.
7905
MailOnline has learned the app will launch with content from Jim Henson TV, DreamWorks, National Geographic, and a handful of popular YouTubers and new series, such as Thomas the Tank Engine.
7906
The rogue trader facing charges he manipulated the share market and helped trigger a trillion dollar Wall Street crash will remain in jail for the weekend after failing to pay his £5million bail.
7907
In a statement released on Thursday, police said the sender would be 'feeling a little sheepish' after their attempt to smuggle the marijuana was sniffed out.
7908
Tim McGraw, the hit country singer also got a photo with Churchill, who was also on set to promote news song and a GMA producer was heard raving about Churchill saying has 'nailed it' and that women will love his 'Aussieness' and that the 'Bromance' is real.
7909
The Ukip leader said that his party is now the 'serious challenger' to Labour in northern seats.
Labour's Chuka Umunna has again repeated a tired old claim about Ukip and race.
7910
Suspects Westley Capper (left) and co-accused Craig Porter outside court in Marbella yesterday after the hearing.
John Capper's private jet.
7911
In 2013, Pope Francis appeared to cast out a demon from a wheelchair-bound man who said he was possessed by the devil.
7912
Eric Cantona claimed Manchester United are ‘kings of the city’ again after their derby victory on Sunday and the club legend believes they have found the right man in Louis van Gaal to drive them to the Premier League title next year.
7913
Martinez said they have established a list of transfer targets for the summer and, while he would not confirm publicly, Aston Villa's on-loan Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley, out of contract at the end of the season, is believed to be one of them.
7914
I’m a big fan of Olivier Giroud but Arsenal needed to ask a different question of the Chelsea defence.
JOSE IS ALWAYS THE BOSS .
7915
The council initially suggested the couple withdraw their development and reconsider their plans in a way that could 'preserve the views' of Ms Goyer's property.
7916
Asbestos has been discovered in the roof at New York City's mayoral residence and work to remove the potentially cancer-causing materials from Gracie Mansion will begin this month.
7917
The 18-year-old, who is just 18 months younger than blonde bombshell Gigi, 19, stars in a powerful and provocative new shoot featured in the May issue of Elle magazine, which sees her modeling a series of risque and revealing ensembles.
Visit site .
7918
This is the moment a  boy is reduced to tears as he loses an Easter egg rolling race before he's even set off - video footage shows Blaine Taylor from Scotland, competing against his older brother Cody .
7919
Marks & Spencer is stocking the Bouea macrophylla (pictured) – or mango plum – after years of work with specialist growers in Thailand.
7920
Zero tolerance: Both Gala Bingo and Mecca Bingo said drug taking was banned in both of their venues (pictured, Gala Bingo in Basildon, where cocaine traces were discovered)
7921
Bosch, 31, was the hero of Saracens' European Champions Cup quarter-final victory over Racing Metro 11 days ago, booting a penalty with the game's final kick to secure a 12-11 success in Paris.
7922
Talking to Sportsmail, he said: 'I'm a Marseille boy, I love Marseille, the club, the fans, the area, it's a great place to play football and I will continue to speak to them but it's true I'd like to play in England.'
7923
'Blind and Carrick could play the midfield holding position and I don't have any other option, or I have to play Wayne Rooney in that position again.
7924
While it is still fun to get on a plane, with the promise of a holiday on the other side, seeing Instagram pictures from Justin Bieber's luxury spacious aircraft could make us wishing we had won the lottery.
7925
Mary Kay Letourneau, Vili Fualaau, and their two daughters, Audrey and Georgia, sat down for an interview with Barbara Walters on the eve of the couple's 10-year wedding anniversary .
7926
Jordan Spieth hits his second shot on the ninth hole during the second round of the RBC Heritage .
Let's try to shoot six under today.
7927
Latasha Gosling was separated from her husband but not divorced, and Jason Gosling would often visit his three children at the trailer Latasha shared with O'Shaughnessy.
7928
Amir Khan has admitted he does not know who he will fight on May 30, despite announcing Chris Algieri as his opponent last week.
He is riding my name.'
7929
The young Lyon star has been attracting interest from Premier League clubs but the frontman's father Mohamed does not want him to sit on the bench at Man City and claims he would progress with Arsenal under Arsene Wenger.
7930
Alex Hales is hoping for a 'proper crack' at one-day international cricket with England .
'I am still learning my game, but I would definitely not say I have been "worked out".'
7931
Angela Collins and Margaret Elizabeth Hanson from Port Hope, Ontario, decided to use Xytex Corp to start a family in 2006, believing they had a strict vetting process.
7932
Mrs Brown said she believed Mr Echukwu was a care worker.
A woman who was in the pool with Mr Echukwu was left distraught by what happened, witnesses said.
7933
Bookmakers Coral have Great British Bake Off host Sue Perkins (left) as favourite to replace Jeremy Clarkson (right) as the host of Top Gear .
7934
Students from Zeta Beta Tau at both the University of Florida (pictured) and Emory University have been accused of disrespecting the ex-servicemen during the Warrior Beach Retreat in Panama City on April 17.
7935
The study also looked at social media and found that middle class teenagers were more likely to use Snapchat, the controversial message service where messages disappears seconds after they are sent .
7936
Faiz Ikramulla, 35 (left), was arrested and charged on Thursday with aggravated kidnapping after allegedly dumping his three-year-old daughter, Aliya (right), in an Illinois trash can .
7937
Police forces have repeatedly warned that would-be thieves will check social media to see whether property owners have said they will be away, before striking while nobody is home.
7938
Ramon C. Estrada, 62, was set to be paroled in less than three weeks when he died Sunday at the prison in Draper, Utah Department of Corrections spokeswoman Brooke Adams said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.
7939
Sportsmail's Racing Correspondent Marcus Townend and Britain's No 1 tipster Sam Turner cast their eye over the 39-strong field for the race and offer their predictions.
Find out by clicking play on the video below.
7940
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has defended Nigel Pearson and admires the Leicester City boss for being 'his own man.'
'He's his own man.
7941
Many of those in the record crowd of 30,000 took to Twitter to express their anger at the club interrupting the minute’s silence on at least five occasions.
7942
You all say he's leaving, even if I don't know anything about it.
If he were to leave, I'd know who to replace him with.
7943
It should be noted that a very thorough and detailed story published by ESPN in 2013 said that after his arrest for disorderly conduct back in 2012 and while still at college, Manziel did seek help for an alcohol problem, seeing an counselor for six or seven weeks.
7944
Dr Franff's almost-overly smooth skin and platinum blond hair share a resemblance with that of Dr Fredric Brandt, who is known for being the cosmetic dermatologist of stars including Madonna and Stephanie Seymour.
7945
Manchester United's captain was the last player to score a winner for Manchester United at home to their rivals, striking a stunning overhead kick past Joe Hart in a 2-1 win on 2011.
7946
, DC Les Clegg, of Lancashire police's anti-corruption team, said text messages between Holman and the defendant appeared to correspond to her accessing information about Dean Harrison.
7947
Bayern Munich manager Pep Guardiola is concerned about his team without Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery .
We have other players and have to adapt the game for them.'
7948
He said his parents withheld his adoption record for years, so it wasn't until 2012 that Adam Crapser submitted a green card application - which set in motion his path to a deportation hearing.
7949
Dr Underdown and his colleague Dr Charlotte Houldcroft, a researcher in infectious diseases at Cambridge University and University College London, analysed recent genetic studies on Neanderthals and other early humans.
7950
'However, based on the hearing frequencies that we know that they were able to hear, it is possible to state that Llallawavis may have produced sound of low frequency.'
7951
In the intervening 12 years he has spent in the region of £842.9m on transfer fees, winning three Premier Leagues, four FA Cups, three League Cups, one Europa League and one Champions League, but now, Mourinho says, Abramovich’s rule will benefit England as well as Chelsea.
7952
Turning right the train enters another tunnel and plunges back into darkness before re-emerging next to even more skiers.
7953
What was he thi-ink-ing?
The makeshift tattoo session took place in Mr Moffatt's living room with a £70 ink gun bought online.
It's a nightmare.'
7954
The refrigerated lorry - where bodies were stored after the hospital ran out of space in its mortuary over the Easter weekend - parked outside Queen's Hospital in Burton, Staffordshire .
7955
John Coyne, 56, who ran the Prince of Wales pub in Harrow Road, central London, attacked his 25-year-old victim who had fallen unconscious after a night of drinking in October last year.
7956
A California homeowner's surveillance video captured footage of three burglars, two men and one woman, who broke into their Los Angeles home mid-afternoon .
7957
A statement on the Bermuda Police website read: 'Around 12:55pm on Sunday, April 12 police officers responded to a report of two disruptive passengers on a diverted Thomson Airways flight landing at LF Wade International Airport.
7958
Mr Shirley says the family were told by cabin staff that a passenger on an earlier flight had been sick in the seating area, and that staff had cleaned the area.
7959
I’d come to Washington to learn some tricks from House Of Cards –the hit US political TV series starring Kevin Spacey as Francis Underwood – on how best to neutralise your opponents.
7960
Lewis Hamilton celebrates winning the Bahrain Grand Prix ahead of Sebastian Vettel and Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg (right)
1.
2.
3.
15.
7961
Scientists have found vast deep water gas hydrates in the Arctic that are reservoirs for abiotic methane – a gas which is 20 times more effective in trapping heat than carbon dioxide.
7962
Turia Pitt, pictured with mother Celestine and her new nose, was competing in an ultra-marathon through WA's Kimberley region in 2011 when she was caught in a bushfire .
7963
Suffolk coroner Peter Dean told an inquest into the death of signer Chris Hardman, aka Lil Chris (left and right), that a friend found his body hanged at his home in Lowestoft on March 23 .
7964
Bob Heslip (pictured), 50, who suffers from Neurofibromatosis type 1, or NF-1, has joined the Venice Beach Freakshow and said for the first time in his life he feels comfortable in his skin .
7965
'On the rest, you want to produce the quality of performance that is expected from us on the technical side, but you have first to fight with them physically, that's for sure.
7966
'If websites showing adult content don't have proper age controls in place – ones that will stop children looking at this kind of material – they should and will be blocked altogether,' he added.
7967
Prescott, Arizona City Attorney Jon Paladini (left) claims that the lone surviving Granite Mountain Hotshot Brendan McDonough overheard an argument between the crew leader and his deputy over the move, which would prove deadly .
7968
Male competitors on Bear Grylls' show The Island had not eaten for two weeks when they killed what producers believed was a common caiman - but later discovered was an endangered American crocodile .
7969
Meanwhile, Spain are looking towards an all-Spanish Champions League final between arch rivals Barcelona and Real Madrid with Marca referring to semi-final opponents Bayern Munich and Juventus as 'The Berlin Walls' blocking 'the mother of all finals'.
7970
For in the wake of Amelie Mauresmo's announcement that she is pregnant, the world No 3's trial with his prospective assistant coach Jonas Bjorkman has assumed a greater importance.
7971
Indeed, the town once boasted a ranch house and a commissary building after four ranchers moved to the area in the 1870s and early 1880s.
Co
7972
Mr Holpin or the children’s mothers would also have been able to claim at least £500,000 in child benefit and a further £800,000 in child tax credits.
7973
If Bayern Munich manage to overturn the 3-1 Champions League quarter-final first leg scoreline handed to them by Porto last week, Xabi Alonso will have his eyes on a very special record.
7974
The body of Sarah Fox, 27, was found by police on Thursday night, just hours before her 57-year-old mother Bernadette was found dead at sheltered accommodation just half a mile away.
7975
A New York teacher fired after allegedly encouraging pupils to bully a 13-year-old girl by writing down her worst qualities on the blackboard has said she is the victim of a terrible 'injustice' - and wants her job back.
7976
The Glimpsing Heat from Alien Technologies Survey (G-Hat), published in the Astrophysical Journal, details how the team thought they might see the infrared signature of a race far more advanced than ours.
7977
Umpires ejected a total of five players from both teams after the fight at Chicago's U.S. Cellular Field, Illinois .
He received a five-game suspension.
7978
The finding – hidden in a footnote to a Greenpeace press release – shows greater backing for the shale gas industry than other recent polls.
7979
Edward Nudel, 41 (photographed), was indicted Wednesday on multiple charges after allegedly strangling a relative's dog and bragging about it afterward .
7980
Nick Clegg's arch-rival for the leadership of the Liberal Democrats Tim Farron (pictured) was at the centre of a bitter row last night over the death of one of the party's councillors .
7981
Police say Michael Scott Shemansky came to their attention after he failed to appear for a supervised visit with his son on the same day mother Sandra Shemansky, 57, was found dead at the home they shared in Winter Garden.
7982
To help get you in the mood for the first major of the year, Rory McIlroy, Ian Poulter, Graeme McDowell and Justin Rose, plus past Masters champions Nick Faldo and Charl Schwartzel, give the lowdown on every hole at the world-famous Augusta National Golf Club.
7983
The device applies eyeliner with a long black brush, while an attachment smears lipstick on lips, before lighting up when the process  is complete.
7984
That levelled the scores up at 1-1, but Adam's wonder strike would end up counting for nothing as Chelsea snatched a second-half winner to leave Stoke nursing a third successive league loss.
7985
'United bought a lot of very good players such as Angel di Maria, Radamel Falcao, Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and Daley Blind.
7986
In a video, a scientist has revealed how gin and vodka dilute red wine stains, why vinegar is so good at removing mineral deposits on glass, and how spit tackles stubborn food stains in your kitchen.
7987
Macemore was a second year English teacher at West Wilkes High School when she was suspended without pay following her arrest in May 2014 .
7988
The fight on May 2 is expected to break the pay-per-view record of £102m set by Mayweather's fight with Saul 'Canelo' Alvarez in September 2013.
7989
It will mean English, Welsh and Northern Irish MPs being able to set a separate rate of income tax to that in Scotland – where the SNP is expected to hold sway after the election – with MPs north of the border having no say.
7990
The families of victims of Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe are furious at plans to move him from Broadmoor to a low-security Priory unit.
7991
Sergey Bubka, Sebastian Coe's rival for IAAF president, launched his election manifesto on Wednesday with a promise to take a hardline approach to doping.
7992
The former Chelsea forward thanked Wolfsburg supporters for their patience and admitted not scoring for the German side was 'eating away' at him.
7993
Meanwhile, Frankie Dettori, who rides Osaila in the Nell Gwyn, has been unveiled as Newmarket’s ambassador for 2015.
He said: ‘I love Newmarket Racecourses.
7994
The single-engine Edge 360 plane was being put through its paces when it crashed in flames at Old Buckenham Airfield near Norfolk (pictured)
7995
It has been an extraordinary journey for Hemphrey from a second XI debut for Kent at 15 to his recent status as the first Englishman to hit a Sheffield Shield hundred since John Hampshire for Tasmania in 1978.
7996
A mysterious benefactor posted the plain brown envelope to officials at Bath Abbey, pledging £1.5million to the church's £20million restoration fund .
7997
A health expert has slammed parents for not taking vaccination seriously after 19 children attending a primary school in north Brisbane contracted the potentially deadly disease whooping cough.
7998
An 11-year-old boy had to be pulled to safety after becoming stuck in knee-deep mud on in Burnham-on-Sea .
His relieved family were visiting from Manchester .
7999
Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, 20, told Raleigh's WRAL-TV on Wednesday that he killed Lane earlier this week in North Carolina because Lane had made sexual advances to Stancil's 16-year-old brother.
8000
Ronald Koeman held a meeting with Southampton's players to refocus their minds on European qualification after Victor Wanyama's future came under question.
8001
Monica McDermott, 41, could not walk straight when police stopped her black Lexus on a road in Macclesfield, Cheshire.
I got myself in a state'
8002
With Gomis in first place, Queens Park Rangers forward Charlie Austin is this week's runner up with a Game Index score of 52.2 after scoring and assisting a further two goals in the Hoops' 4-1 victory away at West Brom on Saturday.
8003
Mr Baillie said the decision not to prosecute Lord Janner (left),  who he claims abused him when he was aged 15,  for the fourth time was a 'complete travesty'.
8004
Adam Barker, who served 13 weeks in prison after admitting to making indecent images of children in 2012, is an equal shareholder in Handles for Forks Ltd, which manages and distributes his father's work.
8005
But the Standard Model does not explain dark matter, which is believed to make up most of the universe, nor dark energy, a mysterious force driving the galaxies ever further apart.
8006
Rodgers failed to make it as a professional footballer despite leaving Northern Ireland for England at the age of 16 and training with the Reading youth team.
8007
Life in the water: 
Scene: The image was reportedly taken at Sebastian Inlet State Park (pictured) near Vero Beach, Florida .
8008
Sergey Kernitskiy, general manager, revealed his novel solution to the problem of having no cash by saying: 'We are offering houses and real estate property near the sea to players to cover salary debts.
8009
Take a minute to think where City would have been without that century.
Aguero celebrates with Edin Dzeko after that goal when City scored twice in injury time to win title .
8010
At the height of the sex scandal that saw Bill Clinton admitting he frolicked with intern Monica Lewinsky in the Oval Office, one White House maid was astonished to find the first couple's marital bed drenched in blood, according to  Brower.
8011
Blue flairs are awarded between 42 and 51 seconds, green flairs are between 32 and 41 seconds, yellow flairs are awarded when The Button is pressed when the timer is between 22 and 31 seconds, and orange flairs are between 12 and 21 seconds.
8012
Ned Cutcher, policy officer at the NSW Tenants' Union, said public housing tenants were already liable if they caused damage to properties.
8013
Prior is chief executive of the ONE Pro Cycling team that has been confirmed in the list of entrants for the inaugural Tour de Yorkshire which will run over three stages starting in Bridlington on May 1.
8014
There had also been reports relating to Loughlin's 'suspicious behavior', where he allegedly got too close to some of the infants in his care .
8015
Friends have begun to send their love and support to Chris and his family on social media as he battles to stay alive following the horrendous incident .
8016
Fans inside the Emirates Stadium display a banner reading: '£5bn and what do we get? £64 a ticket'
'The fans are that soul and no one cares about the match going fans.
8017
A MyCause page, set up by family friend Diana Teoh with the goal of raising $20,000 to assist the distraught family with funeral funds, has raised $47,226 so far and continues to gain support.
8018
Diddy and Mark Wahlberg placed a bet of $250,000 on the Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao mega-fight .
8019
It is hoped the ten-day 100km trek to the North Pole will raise £250,000 for the Lewis Moody Foundation as well as the Royal Marines Charitable Trust.
8020
Following a recent social media campaign to have the bronze statue removed, sculptor Dave Poulin  called it 'by far my most unsettling sculpture', and pledged to make a new one.
8021
Atlanta Hawks' players Thabo Sefolosha, left, and Pero Antić, right, were arrested for allegedly failing to leave the scene when police arrived.
8022
The bath is cooled to -175F (-115C) using liquid nitrogen and Mayweather spends up to three minutes in the chamber.
Floyd Mayweather takes the plunge in the
8023
Wicketkeeper Brad Haddin came under fire for his send-off of Kiwi opener Martin Guptill, and a photograph of Haddin and all-rounder James Faulkner mocking Grant Elliott after his dismissal cast a shadow over the Australian’s fifth World Cup triumph.
8024
The aircraft captain said the UFO initially appeared as a white disc before changing into a 'giant red ball.'
countless pilots have witnessed similar objects in the sky.
8025
Daughters Kim and Sue are both supportive of their mother's party lifestyle .
: Bette says she hoped to grow old disgracefully and says she is very happy .
8026
Celtic's title prospects 'look great' following their 2-0 win over bottom side St Mirren in Paisley on Friday night, according to Stefan Johansen.
8027
Meanwhile, a photo was shown of a traffic cone that was positioned behind the truck as suspects allegedly removed gold from the vehicle after breaking a lock on the back.
8028
Dietmar Hamann believes Bastian Schweinsteiger should leave Bayern Munich at the end of the season after losing his place to Xabi Alonso in Pep Guardiola's side.
8029
List five things for which you are grateful: Whether they are big or small things, Belton recommends doing this for ten weeks can have a big impact on wellbeing .
8030
Sue Sim, who came to national prominence five years ago as Northumbria Police dealt with the Raoul Moat manhunt, said she was 'sad' to leave the force but was retiring to spend more time with her family.
8031
The model, who claims to be a vegetarian, describes how 'even the roughest parts of the body like the elbows feel soft, and I think I owe that to the blood'.
8032
Jessica stabbed her boyfriend of four years, five times, after he arrived outside her Marrickville home in Sydney, fuelled on the drug 'ice', the trial judge heard .
8033
Referencing Karen Buckley, Judge Cadbury said: 'It's very, very worrying how young girls put themselves in such very, very vulnerable positions' - prompting anger from domestic abuse and rape charities .
8034
Hazard, being filmed as part of a feature for Queens Park Rangers defender Rio Ferdinand's '5' magazine, left a defender in knots with his fancy footwork as he handed out a lesson in ball control.
8035
Cheslea are in talks over a partnership with Belgian side Royal Mouscron-Peruwelz - defender Thibault Peyre pictured in action .
8036
Mauricio Pochettino has given Harry Kane his blessing to play in the European Under 21 Championships this summer.
'Can he play for the Under 21s?
8037
Khandaqji called the Osceola County Sheriff’s Office on Monday telling the dispatcher to 'shut up and listen' as she explained that she was going to hire a hitman and  'kill whomever I can kill' because she wanted to be deported to Jordan.
8038
Chelsea are favourites to agree terms with Brazilian starlet Kenedy after his club Fluminense agreed to sell his economic rights to Giuliano Bertolucci's agency.
8039
Members of the university council ordered that the bronze sculpture be removed after hearing its presence made black students feel uncomfortable and was seen a symbol of historical white oppression.
8040
The boy's body was exhumed by officers as part of a case review, with DNA samples leading police to the boy's mother.
'The pregnancy was concealed from everybody.
8041
The Anfield boss was fined at Blackburn Magistrates' Court for leaving a £69,950 terrace house in Accrington, Lancashire, with broken windows and doors and rubbish strewn across the garden.
8042
Campbell played alongside Toure in the season Arsenal went unbeaten as Cole and Lauren (right) confront Phil Neville after their side's infamous 0-0 draw with Manchester United at Old Trafford in 2003 .
8043
Adam Federici will put his Wembley blunder behind him when Reading take on Birmingham in the Sky Bet Championship, according to manager Steve Clarke.
8044
On a lotus leaf this contact angle is typically 150 degrees, while the Toyal Lotus lid's  creates an angle of 170 degrees (illustrated)
8045
Colonia del Sacramento is perhaps Uruguay's prettiest town, with cobbled streets and crumbling buildings left over from Portuguese and Spanish rule .
8046
Asylum seekers and refugees applying to be minicab drivers are exempt from criminal records checks, potentially allowing murderers and rapists to get behind the wheel.
8047
Jay Rutland, 34, who is married to the 30-year-old daughter of Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone, saw his company bring in just £3,378 over the 12 months to July 2014.
8048
But critics say increasing numbers of high-fliers mean not enough has been done to stop qualifications becoming too easy.
8049
Crawford won the vacant WBO junior welterweight title with a sixth-round technical knockout Saturday night, knocking down Dulorme three times in quick fashion after that big blow.
8050
Today, Cuomo met with Cuba's top officials for U.S. relations along with executives from Jetblue, MasterCard, Pfizer and other New York-based companies.
8051
The Caley Thistle boss says he felt so repulsed by the gut-wrenching predicament being endured by his young defender - before he was dramatically cleared - that he was ready to walk away from his post and the games he loves, just weeks before an historic Scottish Cup Final date.
8052
Abby Lubiewski's mother Amanda was outraged after finding out her three-year-old daughter with special needs was forced to take her thick glasses off for school picture day .
8053
Tiger hits and off they go to see Tiger hit again.
Found a bunker, then missed the green on the par three fourth, played a quite stunning second from a poor fairway lie on the fifth.
8054
Ian Bell rescued England from a nightmare start with a century in the first Test against West Indies that was pay back time for being dropped during his last Caribbean series.
8055
Lavezzi made it 2-1 in the 59th minute from an excellent Javier Pastore cross, before Zlatan Ibrahimovic netted his second with eight minutes remaining after rounding goalkeeper Stephane Ruffier.
8056
International stars like Brendon McCullum will visit to play T20 cricket this summer, but talk among homegrown players is of how it might save England from further embarrassment in global competitions.
8057
Young is known for being the resident DJ at the Red Devils, but he admitted to being under strict orders from manager Louis van Gaal to play only house and funky house music.
8058
The 27-year-old has represented England at under-19 and under-21 level, and at senior level 12 times, the last of them in a friendly victory over Italy in August 2012.
8059
Clinton Cash, right, a new book by Peter Schweizer, is set to spell out a trend whereby big money donors to the Clinton Foundation found U.S. policies coming out of the State Department shift in their favor .
8060
Not long after she rose to prominence for her outrageous claims, it was revealed Ms Reichert was a dominatrix who charges $1,000 an hour for BDSM sessions .
8061
Ed Miliband, pictured during his speech today, pledged to crackdown on the illegal exploitation of migrant workers by promising a Home Office task force to boost prosecutions and fines on bad employers .
8062
Visit site .
 On Thursday evening Entertainment Tonight reported that Jenner started a gender transition process in the mid-1980s but stopped after he met and fell in love with Kris Kardashian, who became his third wife .
8063
Ander Herrera celebrates with team-mates after scoring his team's third goal at Old Trafford .
But he has to wait for the right moment,' said van Gaal.
8064
Leave the potatoes to cook.
Finally skin the spud using fingers to pinch the skin off the potato - hey presto, perfectly peeled potatoes!
8065
Australian presenter and model Nicky Buckley famously soldiered on with her presenting job on The Sale of the Century after falling pregnant in 1997, continuing to wear the glamorous, figure-hugging gowns her job required of her.
8066
It is thought the lion crossed two freeways to get to his home in Griffin Park, but it is not known how long he has been living in the crawl space in the Los Feliz hills .
8067
Gerry Pickens, 28, was fired by the chief of police in Orting, Washington, after just under a year on the town's police force - an act he claims is motivated by racism.
8068
John Hinckley Jr, in 2014, the would-be assassin of President Ronald Reagan, pictured for the first time since a court ruled he can spend 17 days a month away from a mental home where he has been for the last three decades at his mother's Virginia home .
8069
According to the victim's father, the attacker walked in through an unlocked front door around midnight and proceeded to fire shots after a heated conversation.
8070
Beaten three times in eight minutes before the break, but made fine early saves from Santi Cazorla and Aaron Ramsey as well as a splendid reaction save from Olivier Giroud in the second half.
8071
The banner, displayed during Roma's 1-0 defeat of Napoli on Saturday, caused outcry for insulting the mother of a Napoli fan who was killed in violent clashes between supporters last year.
8072
The shares are one of the most popular in the UK due to the hugely successful ‘Tell Sid’ advertising campaign when British Gas was privatised.
8073
Not long after their arrest, cell phone video emerged showing Erica Avery and her friend Patricia Montes leering over the victim as she writhed half naked and wept in the yard of the home of Jayvon Woolfork.
8074
A military spokesman said the winner will receive a cash prize and  the knowledge of knowing she is the most beautiful woman soldier in Kazakhstan .
8075
With the other end of the cord attached to a white pickup, the vehicle then speeds off, uprooting the ATM (far right) from its mount and dragging it across the tarmac .
8076
Li Chien, 30, had been visiting a nearby pub in Xiulin Township, Hualien county, and became annoyed with a dog owned by neighbour Tang Chao, right, on his way home and killed it .
8077
Labour leader Ed Miliband today warned voters in Scotland that every MP Labour does not win north of the border makes a Tory government more likely .
8078
The father of Jules Bianchi, the Formula One driver who sustained a severe head injury when he crashed into a recovery vehicle at the Japanese Grand Prix in October 2014, has spoken about his son's condition.
8079
The findings, published in the British Journal of General Practice, show that seeing the same GP was not linked to a later diagnosis for breast cancer or lung cancer (posed by model)
8080
Programmer Charanjeet Kondal has used an application to create images of the new prince or princess.
Scroll down for video .
Royal baby?
8081
He's training, he starts training with the rest of the squad next week.'
Mourinho also said that Loic Remy has recovered from a calf injury and could return against United.
8082
She pulls a cheeky face as she continues around the room – in the background her father can be seen emulating the walk with her.
8083
Ten-man Southampton lifted the Premier League U21 Cup, but they needed extra time, and a brilliant winner, to see off a stubborn Blackburn side.
8084
Yorkshire's Adam Lyth fields during day three of the Champion County match against the MCC .
‘It wasn’t just the concentration side of the game — my confidence changed, too,’ he said.
8085
’ Arsenal boss Wenger says he will speak with Walcott but believes the Gunners winger is 'strong enough' Walcott found himself playing in the No 10 role for England in Turin — a role he is not accustomed to.
8086
Sixth-seed Russian Ekaterina Makarova beat the United States' Bethanie Mattek-Sands 6-4 7-6 (7/3) Carla Suarez Navarro (8) overcame Russia's Evgeniya Rodina 6-2 6-7 (5/7) 6-4 in her first round match .
8087
Manchester City Ladies midfielder Jill Scott has apologised after she was sent off for headbutting Jade Bailey during her side's 1-0 defeat by Arsenal on Sunday.
8088
But fans will be hoping to see more of the 22-year-old, as her Golf Punk magazine photo shoot is bound to produce more Indian Ocean treats.
8089
One bookmaker has them at 14/1 to win and Reading's manager accepts they will have to play the 'perfect game' to overcome an Arsenal side on the back of eight straight league wins.
8090
The world endurance championship, whose annual highlight is the Le Mans 24 Hours sportscar classic, is getting rid of the grid girls.
8091
'You guys ready to play some golf?' asked the starter.
Woods, like McIlroy, began six under par but with Spieth ten shots ahead, it was idealistic to even contemplate a charge.
8092
Bradley Johnson heads home to give Norwich City the lead against Sheffield Wednesday at Carrow Road .
Ref: Carl Boyeson .
8093
Ed Sheeran, who is currently touring New Zealand, took time out of his schedule over the weekend to help Jess Knight celebrate her 20th birthday in Auckland Hospital .
8094
Jordan was spotted by a German-flagged boat on Thursday, more than two months after sailing out of a South Carolina marina.
God is truly great.'
8095
After Matt learned that his best friend had been invited to the same dance by somebody else last year, he immediately asked her if she would be his date this time around - and she gladly accepted.
8096
A&E consultant Dr Ram Manohar, 38, is alleged to have inappropriately touched the nurses in 2013, while working at Wirral's Arrowe Park Hospital.
8097
It was first reported at the end of last month by security researchers Simone Bovi and Mauro Gentile and specifically applies to version 2.5.1 of AFNetworking.
8098
Henry Pryor, a buying agent and property commentator, said: ‘Sellers like Sol Campbell face a financial dilemma: to take a certain hit now or await the potential tax bill that a Labour or Lib Dem Government may generate.’
8099
Miracle Godson, from Marsh Green in Wigan, was reported missing on Friday afternoon after he jumped into deep waters at East Quarry in Appley Bridge near the town and failed to surface.
8100
The 26-year-old will be hoping to make his first Arsenal start since his side's 3-0 win over West Ham on March 14 when the Gunners face Hull at the KC Stadium on Monday.
8101
The reportedly painful method involves participants placing their mouth over the opening of a cup, jar or shot glass and sucking in until the air vacuum causes their lips to swell up .
8102
Luke Munro, 19, and Dylon Thompson, 21, raided a corner shop in Cleveleys near Blackpool using a 'realistic looking' handgun,pointing it at the owner, his wife, and their toddler as they hid behind the counter .
8103
I know they are a good team with good players but if we play the perfect game we have a chance.
‘It’s not unique history, it’s shared history,’ he said.
8104
Jobless Keith MacDonald, 29, from Sunderland in Tyne and Wear, has sired a massive brood with at least ten mothers - and is estimated to cost the taxpayer over £2million.
8105
The boutique hotel was designed around the Dewey Decimal System, with each floor dedicated to one of its 10 major categories and every room decorated according to a genre or topic within the categories.
8106
Manchester City's youngsters finished off a job well done against Leicester City, adding to their 3-0 first-leg lead with two late goals from Isaac Buckley and Brandon Barker at the King Power Stadium.
8107
Nacho Monreal appears to be a fan of up-beat dance music, opting for David Guetta track 'Dangerous' Laurent Koscielny may prepare for defending at Turf Moor by listening to 'Happy' by Pharrell Williams .
8108
The boy plucks the fish from the water, lays it on the floor and confidently puts his finger in its mouth to remove the hook .
8109
The Danish monarch was joined for the balcony appearance by her son and heir, Crown Prince Frederik, 46, his wife Crown Princess Mary, 43, and their four children.
8110
Fifteen years ago, Jennifer Lopez' shimmering, navel-baring Versace gown captivated the world .
Google Image Search was born.'
8111
Spartak Moscow have been fined and their fans barred from two away games after the club lost its appeal against sanctions for a racist banner.
8112
The IBF, WBA and WBO king ended his seven-year American hiatus by clearly out-pointing Bryant Jennings at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night but it was not the dazzling New York display he had promised on his Stateside return.
8113
The 20-year-old from Uttoxeter's gold-winning time on Friday beat the previous record of 58.46 set by South African Cameron van der Burgh in the same venue at the 2012 Olympics.
8114
Photos taken by rescuers, including the Krabi Marine Police, showed the abandoned vessel burning down almost to the waterline before sinking.
8115
Manning sent out 15 tweets on Friday afternoon - mostly to thank her supporters, including the American Civil Liberties Union, Amnesty International and journalist Glenn Greenwald.
8116
Last month, the European Parliament voted in favour of a cap at 0.2 per cent of the transaction value for debit cards and 0.3 per cent for credit cards (file photo)
8117
Carter and Jack Hanson, who live in Raleigh, North Carolina, met their hero on the Yorktown - a retired carrier in Charleston, where Mr Harding served as an aircraft handler decades before, CBS reported.
8118
Liverpool intend to speak to Jon Flanagan about a new contract at the end of the season with the defender's deal set to expire this summer.
8119
Manchester United scouts are due to watch Inter Milan striker Mauro Icardi against Verona at the weekend.
My family here feels like home.
8120
Surgeons were required to replace the main artery in his left leg with a vein and needed 112 staples to seal the horrific wound.
8121
Manchester United captain Wayne Rooney added to his collection of wonder goals at Old Trafford with a stunning strike in a 3-1 win against Aston Villa that lifted his side above Manchester City into third place in the Premier League.
8122
The top-paying companies in America have been revealing - and film-streaming service Netflix is near the top of the pile, paying a median of $180,000 a year.
8123
When Mary Anderson’s grandson saw the ghost of his grandfather in the family home in Indiana, she decided to ease the boy’s fears by selling the cane he had owned (pictured)
8124
Sunderland have agreed deals to bring in Manchester City youngsters Cameron McCulloch, a goalkeeper, and Josh Maja, a striker, from Manchester City U18s.
8125
Fury is his mandatory challenger for the WBO title.
Tyson Fury, pictured in action against Dereck Chisora, is Klitschko's mandatory challenger for the WBO title .
8126
Hillary Clinton ended her whirlwind New Hampshire campaign swing on Tuesday afternoon in another state entirely, taking taxpayers for an 80 miles-per-hour ride all the way to Boston – to catch a flight with first class seats.
8127
He’s one of my best mates and we’ve played a lot of cricket together.
Broad says it will be a great achievement for Jimmy Anderson to become England's leading wicket taker .
8128
Click right to buy them today.
The 31-year-old is preparing to take part in the 54-mile London to Brighton charity bike ride in June to raise money for the British Heart Foundation, for which she is an ambassador.
8129
But while Lian Marshall - pictured among the treats - does have two chocolate-loving daughters, this incredible bounty is not for them.
8130
Birmingham's highly-rated winger Demarai Gray was on target for the second successive game as his strike rescued a point in City's 2-2 draw against Blackburn at St Andrew's.
8131
The 6ft 7in, 17st-plus Tilse has signed a two-and-a-half-year contract with the Robins and will join them as soon as he receives the necessary paperwork after the Raiders agreed to release him.
8132
Sophie Thomas wore the black shirt in March when she was having her picture taken at Clermont Northeastern Middle School in Batavia.
8133
The Hoops were left outraged by referee Steven McLean's failure to award a penalty or red card for a clear handball in the box by Josh Meekings to deny Leigh Griffith's goal-bound shot during the first-half.
8134
Top-ranked Serena Williams had to fight back from a set down and figure out how to deal with strong winds before overcoming Italy's Sara Errani 4-6, 7-6 (3), 6-3 in a Fed Cup play-off Sunday, giving the United States a 2-1 lead in the best-of-five series.
8135
Schneiderlin  celebrates the first goal with his team-mates during the Barclays Premier League match between Stoke City and Southampton .
8136
Arsenal kept up their impressive recent form with a 1-0 win over Burnley, while the matches between West Ham-Stoke City and Swansea City-Everton ended in 1-1 draws.
Brad Guzan 7.5 (Tottenham vs ASTON VILLA)
8137
The N-222 road from Peso de Regua to Pinhao in Portugal has been awarded Best Road in the World .
Germany - Bad Urach to Burg Hohenzollern .
8138
One of the women was heard saying: 'Hashtag Ed' and the group erupted into giggles before Mr Miliband made his excuses and waved goodbye.
8139
The 21 year old has scored 13 league this season and has also attracted interest from the likes of Manchester United, Arsenal, Paris Saint-Germain and Atletico Madrid.
8140
Sea Shepherd's vessels Bob Barker and Sam Simon rescued the men from the ocean.
Watertight doors on board the Thunder were dogged open increasing suspicion that the vessel was scuttled .
8141
Eve Stratford, a 22-year-old glamour model who worked at London's Playboy club, was found with her throat slashed in her Leyton home on the evening of 18 March 1975.
8142
However, the 33-year-old claims he is willing to fight for the jersey he went on to make his own after breaking in to the side as a 16-year-old in 1996 - before becoming the youngest Champions League keeper in 2000.
8143
Police were forced to separate Reclaim Australia supporters and opposing protesters by forming a wall at separate rallies across the country .
8144
Mike Keen, the Labour leader's cousin, said he was 'officially confused' over whether or not the Ed Miliband was actually promising to scrap non-dom rules .
8145
Amsterdam Falafel Shop in Washington DC, US, has launched its pot-pairing menu which matches five falafels to different strains of weed.
8146
Kazi Islam, 18, sent messages via his Blackberry to Harry Thomas, 19, praising Lee Rigby's killers and encouraging him to buy a knife to attack soldiers with, along with the ingredients to make an explosive device, the Old Bailey was told.
8147
Lu and partner Zhen mated for an impressive seven minutes and 45 seconds, setting a new record for the year at the Sichuan Giant Panda Research Centre.
The female of the species are prone to making loud and strange noises, while male pandas leave traces of their scent to attract the opposite sex.
8148
The moment was captured on video and shows Alaska Department of Fish and Game Biologist Tom Seaton leading 100 wood bison to freedom on a snowmobile.
8149
Any less than six hours or any more than 10 hours is unusual for the standard person.
Any less than six or any more than ten hours is unusual for the standard person .
8150
According to his father, the boy most likely fell while sleepwalking.
The kid fell from the fourth floor of this building while sleepwalking, according to his father .
8151
Manny Pacquiao has unveiled the mouth guard he will use in his money-spinning fight with Floyd Mayweather in Las Vegas on May 2.
8152
Around a quarter of the Cape Verde squad are European, although 14 of the 19 players used in Portugal were born on the island.
Who are the star players?
8153
Fighting broke out after the bar closed, and Mr Potts, a father-of-six and grandfather-of-one who was described by his sister as 'a big softie', stepped in to stop it.
8154
Terrifying dashcam footage has emerged of cars enveloped by a raging wildfire on a road in eastern Siberia - with one vehicle driving past with its roof blazing.
8155
President Barack Obama arrived at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, on Sunday morning with his wife and daughters for the festive service.
8156
Karen Davis (pictured) from Port Pirie has caused controversy after a picture appeared on Google Maps Street View showing her bearing her size-K breasts .
8157
Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jagielka, Baines; Henderson, Wilshere; Welbeck, Rooney, Sterling; Kane .
Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jones, Gibbs; Carrick; Henderson, Wilshere; Sterling, Rooney, Welbeck .
8158
As heavyweight champion he reigned another five years before surrendering the crown to white challenger Jess Willard, afterwards claiming he had thrown the fight.
8159
Sam Gallagher put an injury-hit season behind him by inspiring Southampton to Under-21 Premier League Cup glory, netting an exceptional goal which he hopes caught Ronald Koeman's eye.
8160
Scottie Pippen's daughter Sierra Pippen, pictured left as a child with her father, was arrested on Sunday and charged with public intoxication and public urination .
8161
I still feel like there's plenty of positives to take from them, especially Doral and Bay Hill, I felt like I played pretty good there.
8162
Dedicated waitress Judy Eddingfield, 65, celebrated her 50th anniversary working at Winstead's restaurant in Kansas City last week and declares that it's the only job's she's ever had or ever wanted.
8163
Linda MacDonald, 55, was arrested on Monday for drunk driving and decided to stick out her tongue when she was brought to Vermont State Police barracks for booking.
8164
Labour said new laws would introduce a local policing commitment that required forces to guarantee neighbourhood policing and 10,000 officers would be safeguarded for three years .
8165
49.6 percent of women 25 to 29 years old were childless in 2014, as opposed to 49.4 percent in 2012, according to the data from the U.S. Census Bureau.
8166
Ludogorets player Cosmin Moti is guilty of producing one of the worst tackles you're likely to see this season after his kung-fu style tackle on a CSKA Sofia player - but unbelievably the referee waved play on.
8167
These days they are sported by the likes of the mostly very stylish 22-year-old model Cara Delevingne and 17-year-old reality star, Kylie Jenner, with a mirrored sheen giving them a 2015 update.
8168
The seven-row Dairy Milk Spectacular will contain one row each of: Dairy Milk Caramel, Dairy Milk Fruit & Nut, Dairy Milk Whole Nut, Dairy Milk Oreo, Dairy Milk Daim, and Dairy Milk Turkish.
8169
Mayweather's chef reveals he gets a lot of his energy from eating sweets like Twizzlers on 'snack day' 'Chef Q' told Mayweather's 'Money Team' she usually makes the champ healthy food, but not on snack day .
8170
Sybil Meister firmly believes her daughter Koral Reef picked up the deadly and mysterious Balamuthia mandrillaris infection during a family trip to Lake Havasu in May 2013.
8171
Manchester United midfielder Ander Herrera has played down comparisons with Paul Scholes .
'I always play passionately – for the team and our supporters.
8172
The pair left the school together, where Mr Johnson claimed SNP's plans to prop up a Labour government would mean 'truckfuls of taxpayers' dosh growling up the M1 to Scotland' 'You would have Labour at the beck and call of the SNP.
8173
The new store, which has a drive through, serving hatch and outdoor seating area, retains the main existing structure as well as the canopy from an added car wash .
8174
Victoria Police Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said the 18-year-old men, from Hallam and Hampton Park, were 'associates' of Abdul Numan Haider, the 18-year-old who was shot dead after stabbing two officers outside a Melbourne police station on September 23.
8175
Emma Giffard, 36, and Ollie Halls, 37, from Somerset, bought the cinema for just £1,200 in 2005 and spent £35,000 on restoring the vintage classic with friends in Devon over five years.
8176
David Cameron will put small business at the heart of the election campaign today by declaring that the Conservatives are ‘the party of the grafters’ Yesterday, Mr Cameron defended his campaign against criticism it is too narrow.
8177
Speaking in parliament earlier today, Gen Nakatani promised lawmakers that there had been no alien breach of Japanese airspace, and that no government studies into extra-terrestrials were under way.
8178
The South American state still claims territorial rights to the remote, wind-swept islands from Spain when it gained independence.
It's not just wishful thinking'
8179
Despite the outrage expressed by parents, the eighth grade boy was allowed to return to school last month, and the District Attorney has confirmed no charges will be laid, saying the stories were 'horror fiction'
8180
The video starts off with the pint-sized player scoring a succession of hoops before running around dribbling two basketballs.
8181
Latisha Fisher, 35, has been charged with second-degree murder for allegedly killing 20-month-old Gavriel Ortiz-Fisher with her bare hands inside a restroom at 5 Boro Burger on West 36th Street Monday afternoon.
8182
Ms Perry revealed after such a tough few months early on in Chloe and Mason's life, she did not know what to expect when he fell ill again .
8183
For example, scientists using Nasa’s Hubble Space Telescope recently provided powerful evidence that Jupiter’s moon Ganymede has a saltwater, sub-surface ocean, likely sandwiched between two layers of ice.
8184
Scroll down for video .
The man removes the blindfold and laughs to find she's drawn a heart in the mirror and left a lipstick kiss within it.
8185
After winning the Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday, 30-year-old Mercedes driver Hamilton took to the water and enjoyed a jet surf session on Tuesday evening.
8186
The husband, Yin Yunfeng, spent a week cooking all sorts of stir-fried dishes .
 Yin left his wife a note saying he hoped he would be home when she finishes the food and snacks .
8187
Former Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson revealed why he rates Cristiano Ronaldo above Lionel Messi while speaking to John Parrott over a frame of snooker.
8188
Take it away:
Raymond Allen, who opened the first KFC franchise, said he thinks the restaurant is 'dreadful' and won't eat there again .
8189
Guitar Hero Live (redesigned guitar pictured) will be released in the autumn for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii U and mobiles .
8190
An airport luggage conveyor belt has a novel way of separating bags into the correct queues - but it's a somewhat cut and thrust job.
8191
Salford half-back Rangi Chase faces the threat of a four to eight-match ban after he was charged with making a Grade E dangerous throw on Good Friday.
8192
Birmingham Airport could be rebranded 'Shakespeare's Airport' in the U.S. to attract more tourists, but there are concerns that not enough Americans will know who the playwright is .
8193
The Real Madrid forward has not been at his best this year, but turned things around with a stunning display on Sunday, during Real Madrid's 9-1 win.
8194
She may not look it, but this 72-year-old is a master con artist.
Cathryn Parker, 72, has been living as 74 different people, mainly Hollywood production staffers .
8195
Firefighter Miguel Meza (left) who dove into the water in San Pedro after a car carrying a family of four plunged into the water has been hailed a hero on the Facebook page of City Councilman Joe Buscaino (right)
8196
Blackpool goalkeeper Joe Lewis was forced to wear an autographed shirt in last week's Championship match with Reading because the club had no spares, midfielder Andrea Orlandi has revealed.
8197
Mother Margie Brooks, whose son was in the class, told the local station that she was horrified by what the teacher told the students and felt the school waited too long to deal with the problem.
8198
Showing off:
Helping hand: 'I got all of these tweets from people in China saying, 'Hey, we're going to help you find Orange Man,'' Stopera said .
8199
The train struck this person.'
The inquest heard she told doctors she did not want medication for her condition and was not judged to be a suicide risk.
8200
Swansea City  have revived their interest in Blackburn Rovers striker Rudy Gestede.
Leicester City left-back Jeffrey Schlupp (right) has also attracted interest from the Swans .
8201
The 23-year-old, who impressed for Northern Ireland in the week, scored two quite stunning goals as Brentford demolished Fulham 4-1 on Good Friday.
8202
Three former managers of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation filed a suit last week alleging the company paid employees and patients kickbacks for patient referrals in an effort to boost funding from federal health programs (file photo)
8203
Veteran Burnley defender Michael Duff believes manager Sean Dyche could one day take charge of England.
'But you look at the game differently when you get to my age.
8204
Around 50 obese children from Jianxin Primary School, in eastern China, are being sent to special Kung Fu Panda classes in order to help them lose weight .
8205
Hundreds of spectators looked on as the 52-year-old free-climber scaled the 75-storey tower that has a twist of 90 degrees.
8206
Clarke Carlisle says he has 'moved out of the marital home' in Yorkshire that he shared with his wife of 14 years, Gemma.
8207
Manchester City have 'let themselves down' this season and the squad have had 'a lot of honest conversations' since the 4-2 defeat at Manchester United nine days ago, says England goalkeeper Joe Hart.
8208
Dwarfing other newborns on the farm in Gelston near Grantham in Lincolnshire where he was born, Hagrid's owners believe he may be the biggest ever lamb born in the UK at 25lbs.
8209
Tony Hatch (left) and his former wife Jackie Trent (right) wrote a chart-topping hits for the world's biggest stars but he was banned from her funeral last month .
8210
Sumitra has now lost all hope of a treatment being found for her son and says: 'If doctors cannot treat my son it is better that God takes him'
8211
Other Twitter users noted that the highly-coveted items from the Lilly Pulitzer collection will be returned to Target and restocked if everyone bands together and refuses to buy from second hand sellers.
8212
'Kane, Mason and Bentaleb are very important players in the team but it is not only these three are who very important for the team this season.'
8213
At January's JPMorgan Health Care Conference in San Francisco, Dmitry Kaminskiy (right) made a bet with Dr Alex Zhavoronkov (left), PhD, CEO of anti-aging company Insilico Medicine Inc. for a million dollars in stock who would live beyond 100 years of age .
8214
‘We scored an un-Bournemouth goal,’ manager Eddie Howe admitted afterwards.
Ipswich manager Mick McCarthy shakes hands with Bournemouth boss Eddie Howe before the game .
8215
Another, Luci Gosling, added: 'Waking up to a week with no #Poldark to look forward to.
Magic Mike: Channing Tatum and the strippers will be back in July with Magic Mike XXL .
8216
The camera will be place on the Stearns Steeple, and the Mead Art Museum at Amherst plans on holding an exhibition to show the resulting photo in the 3015 .
8217
Kenny Jackett’s team moved into sixth place in the Championship with a fourth successive victory after David Edwards, the substitute, headed home two minutes from the end of an unpredictable and thrilling game.
8218
The pair's lawyers also intend to challenge the barrier preventing foreign citizens from constitutional court appeals .
8219
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini has admitted for the first time he could be sacked if he finishes outside the Champions League places this season.
8220
James Safechuck, who says he met Jackson in 1987 when he was eight and was molested a year later, claims in court filings that Jackson held a secret wedding ceremony with a young Safechuck as his bride .
8221
Abidal said.
The former Barcelona defender, who retired last year, was speaking at the launch of the Eric Abidal Foundation in Catalonia.
8222
Teachers are helping pupils to cheat by giving advice during exams, wrongly bumping up marks and even writing coursework, it has been revealed (file picture)
8223
Dube's ex-husband and the boy's father, Germano Wabafiyebazu, has said his 17-year-old son, Jean Wabafiyebazu , was killed when he went into a house to buy marijuana Monday, and that police arrested Marc.
8224
Orrden Williams Jr. says he was outside a BP gas station in Memphis, Tennessee, when a crowd of loud and unruly teenagers suddenly descended upon the establishment.
8225
Report:
The police report reveals that Dr. Fredric Brandt was suffering from extreme depression before his death and wanted to kill himself .
8226
Silverthorn was deemed guilty this week for driving over the limit and crashing his car into the Niagara River on December 29 (seen above)
8227
Rayden (above) was born on February 5, just a few days after Sherman and the Seattle Seahawks lost the Super Bowl to the New England Patriots .
8228
Graham Leonard, who was returning to Scotland after attending a Manchester United football match, grabbed the PA microphone on the private charter flight and burst into song for his fellow football fans after drinking beer and gin on match day.
8229
'I was greasy today,' Every said on the PGA Tour website.
Graeme McDowell shared the lead on five under  with Matt Every after the first round .
8230
EA Sports have revealed the first gameplay details for their latest golf game EA Sports Rory McIlroy PGA Tour which is due out in July.
Pre
8231
Proud heritage: Descendants of American Southerners wearing Confederate-era uniforms pose for pictures as they attend a party to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the end of the American Civil War in Santa Barbara d'Oeste, Brazil on Sunday .
8232
The deep tones of Luciano Pavarotti (pictured left) singing Nessun Dorma can enhance the bitterness in coffee and the intensity in a chocolate mousse (pictured right) Mr Spence added that humans tend to match the same sounds to the same tastes.
8233
Bennett School District Superintendent Dennis Veal would not say if the school district was liable for health insurance payments to cover the child's treatment.
8234
Mark Carney was spotted on a day off from helping to run the economy jogging in London’s Hyde Park sporting a high-tech running belt with no fewer than four water bottles.
8235
Former soldier John Young, 66, and his new wife Elaine, 54, were sat in the front room of their home in Oldham, Greater Manchester, when thugs began pelting his front window with stones.
8236
U.S. Open champion Marin Cilic was eliminated in the second round of the Barcelona Open on Wednesday, losing to Victor Estrella of the Dominican Republic 6-4, 6-4.
8237
According to an indictment unsealed this month, Menendez helped donor Dr Salomon Melgen bring at least three mistresses to the U.S. on visas - including Brazilian actress Juliana Lopes Leite (left) and Ukrainian model Svitlana Buchyk (right)
8238
Snapshots in the collection, including this of barges in Oxford, will be sold when it is sold at the Oxford Book Fair for around £30,000 .
8239
In the interview, Giorgio Armani admitted that he preferred the 'natural look' on women, rather than women with breast implants .
8240
Apple CEO Tim Cook showed off his personal Apple Watch to customers at an Apple Store in Palo Alto.
Apple CEO Tim Cook looks over a selection of Apple Watches in Palo Alto .
8241
A drugs charity has called on footballer Raheem Sterling to apologise to fans after he was filmed apparently inhaling legal high 'hippy crack'.
8242
Visit site .
Olivia's £995 Marylebone TechTote features luxury amazon brown mock-croc leather and brown hair calf, complete with a dusty pink suede lining and gold hardware - and even comes with a built-in phone charger .
8243
Tevez admits he feels free at Juventus, back to the days when he was playing for Boca Juniors (pictured) Monaco players train at the Juventus Stadium in Turin on the eve of their Champions League quarter-final .
8244
Footage shows a suicide bomber's car being catapulted into the air after apparently hitting a road-side bomb while trying to launch an attack on Kurdish Peshmerga forces near Kirkuk in northern Iraq .
8245
The 26-year-old from Burnham-on-Sea won the 2013 BMX world title and was the World Cup series champion in 2014.
That would add to my box of tricks come the Olympics.'
8246
A Sydney anti-ageing doctor has been found guilty of medical misconduct after it was revealed she had been inappropriately prescribing drugs such as steroids and hormones to her patients.
8247
A Fox Sports spokeswoman told AAP that they had only become aware of Briony Ingerson's photograph on Monday and the company know it was unacceptable .
8248
The CH-53E Super Stallion landed on the shore of this northern San Diego County town shortly after 11:30am after a low oil-pressure indicator light went on in the cockpit, Marine Corps Air Station Miramar said in a statement.
8249
Following all his inspired charity work, Didier Drogba has been awarded with a Barclays Spirit of the Game trophy.
8250
Kim Kardashian, her husband Kanye West, their daughter North and Kim's sister Khloe arrived in the capital Yerevan on Wednesday to a rock star welcome and over eight days are checking out a plethora of local landmarks.
8251
He was born in Melbourne, Australia, but was in the United States on a baseball scholarship when 17-year-old Chancey Allen Luna (pictured walking into court on Thursday) allegedly murdered him .
8252
Reasons he doesn’t: He’s missed too many games because of injury, as well as suspension, and is too often on our back pages for the wrong reasons.
8253
It's unclear whether or not this is a military tank serving the state army, but footage shows people inside the vehicle were wearing camouflage uniforms.
8254
The decision means Ronaldo is suspended for the game against Eibar in La Liga on Saturday — along with Toni Kroos and James Rodriguez, who were also booked — but Real are appealing the yellow card for their star forward.
8255
Motherwell have vowed to go to battle with the SPFL over the issue of free entry to the Premiership play-offs for season-ticket holders.
8256
Scotland's Bradley Neil has received the backing of world No 1 Rory McIlroy as he ponders when to turn professional.
He's definitely got the game.
8257
Chelsea are the worst behaved team in the Premier League when it comes to respecting referees, according to official figures.
BEHAVIOUR OF THE PUBLIC .
8258
Paul McShane scores against Swansea but Hull still fell to a 3-1 defeat at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday .
‘The situation is worrying.
8259
Zeke Celello, who appears to be around two years old, was overcome with emotion when Clinton declared her second presidential bid, and insisted to his mother that 2016 is his year to shine.
8260
Teana Walsh, who is paid by Michigan taxpayers to pursue justice, wrote an unhinged post on her Facebook urging a deadly response to violence in the troubled Maryland city.
'Flipping disgusting'?
8261
Adam Gemili says Usain Bolt is a joker on the circuit and gives him great advice .
There will be a nice little gap opening and it will encourage a lot of people to step up their performance .
8262
A recruiting army sergeant raped a female cadet after telling her cousin 'I hope she is as sweet as she looks', a court heard today.
8263
Barcelona: Ter Stegen 6.5; Dani Alves 7.5, Pique 5, Mascherano 6, Jordi Alba 6; Rakitic 7.5, Busquets 7 (Sergi Roberto 55, 6), Iniesta 9 (Xavi 45, 6.5); Messi 6.5, Suarez 6.5 (Pedro 75, 6), Neymar 9.
8264
Currently, just over half of the vehicles produced at Swindon are exported to the Continent.
Currently, just over half of the vehicles produced at Swindon are exported to the Continent .
8265
Captured at dusk the red sky adds a fiery hue behind the clouded creature giving it an uncanny likeness to the legend of the fire breathing dragon slain by St George - ahead of the patron Saint of England's day tomorrow.
8266
A friend of the employee posted the letter on Reddit under the title, 'my friends work requires a doctors note if you call in sick', and it has now be shared thousands of time online.
8267
Woods, who has confirmed he is ready to play at Augusta after spell working on his game, is one of only five players to win the Masters, The Open, the US PGA Championship and the US Open - and it's that success which led to a young McIlroy aiming to emulate him.
8268
The 6am flight took just an hour and a half to get to the unscheduled stop at Colorado Springs - but then languished for another six hours, before everybody was ordered off anyway.
8269
News comes from the Indian Premier League  that New Zealand all-rounder Corey Anderson is a doubt for next month’s series in England after breaking a finger.
8270
The inquest heard that Miss Hadley, pictured, suffered from psychosis but hid the condition from doctors, making them think she was not a suicide risk .
8271
Fat cat:
 Sprinkles the 33-pound cat is so fat she can't even roll over and she's equally as fat as a 700-pound human, say rescue workers .
8272
Christine Lagarde, the first female chief executive of the International Monetary Fund, left, in a pink Chanel suit and Plaid Cymru's Leanne Wood, right, chose hot pink for her live election debate last Thursday .
8273
Ben Stokes thought he had claimed his 23rd Test wicket when Jermaine Blackwood slashed his short delivery straight to Alastair Cook at slip.
8274
Ings, strongly linked with a move to Manchester United or Liverpool when his contract at Turf Moor runs out in the summer, hasn't scored since February 11 — a run of eight matches — and missed his side's best chance in Saturday's 1-0 defeat at Everton that left Burnley bottom.
8275
As well as joint celebrity names users expressed their annoyance at sharing names with famous songs .
Tina Turner shares the embarrassment: 'I know the feeling ;)'
8276
Nicole McDonough, 32, of Mount Olive, was arrested in December on suspicion of having sex with an 18-year-old student while employed as a teacher at Mendham High School.
8277
Ambulances with the bodies of the eight men executed by Indonesia overnight, including Australians Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, were pictured arriving at Cilacap port from the prison island .
8278
Green Party leader Natalie Bennett responded that sexting is 'OK for other adults but not for me'
Ms Bennett said she would be an author and Ms Morgan a solicitor.
8279
The prosecution alleges Van was aided by his friend Kody Tran (center)  and Tran's wife Diane Tran (right) as well as Tran's employee Shannon Gries (left).
8280
Some festival-goers opted for seemingly uncoordinated looks, with one woman sporting pineapple print leggings, glitter plimsolls, a fringed slogan top, carrying a flag emblazoned with marijuana symbols.
8281
The report cited concerns about communications between air traffic control and other agencies, and said the airport operator issued a safety bulletin with a reminder of emergency protocols and procedures.
8282
The London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, Civic Centre pictured, will become the first in the UK to introduce the plans which will allow them to match dog mess to owners and issue fines .
8283
A frustrated Arsenal fan who jumped over a barrier and ran towards the manager during an away match at Southampton has been banned from going to games for three years.
8284
Anthony McGill celebrates beating Mark Selby during day seven of the Betfred World Championships .
'Time and time again Mark Selby comes back at people, and better players than me.
8285
A spokesman for Red Hot World Buffet said: 'We did serve something wrong, however putting it into context the issue was the lady went outside for a cigarette and left the children unattended.
8286
The striking images each depict the three different notes contained within Air Wick Life Scents Summer Delights (White Flowers, Melon and Vanilla Orchid) and Lush Hideaway (Wild Berry, Fresh Mint and Coconut Water) to inspire you to transform your home using scent.
8287
Earlier this month actress Alyssa Milano blasted Heathrow Airport on Twitter after bottles of her breast milk were confiscated by security.
8288
The evidence proved that Hanline was innocent and the longest-serving wrongfully imprisoned inmate in Californian history was finally released last November with charges only officially dropped yesterday .
8289
It was Arsenal's eighth win in a row, their best run since the Invincibles team in 2004, and kept the pressure on Chelsea, who they meet in their next league game at the Emirates.
8290
After more than two minutes of discussion, Luiz is told he doesn't have to eat the octopus and he can just stick to the potato and rice instead .
8291
Captain Alastair Cook says England will leave Antigua with 'a bit of a downer on' after failing to force victory in the first Test against the West Indies.
8292
At 12, she became the youngest player to appear in the U.S Women's Open.
Thompson was the youngest player to play in the Women's U.S. Open in 2007 when she was just 12.
8293
Nava Greenblatt, one of the zoo’s lead primate keepers, said that the turning point came when a fire alarm sounded at the zoo a few weeks ago, frightening Kecil, who ran to Maggie and cuddle up to her.
8294
Major-General Alastair Duncan (pictured) is currently in a psychiatric unit after having been given the drug prior to a deployment in Sierra Leone .
8295
Crystal Palace boss Alan Pardew joked Glenn Murray has a 'bionic' knee and hopes the striker can continue to torment Premier League defences.
8296
This is the moment two grinning conmen were caught on camera stealing an 80-year-old's savings from a cash machine after tricking him into handing over his bank cards and PIN.
8297
It's truly squeaky bum time in the Premier League relegation battle as just nine points separates the bottom seven teams.
'Others are scared of relegation.
8298
Stanford computer science student Lea Coligado, 21, created Women of Silicon Valley, a blog based on the people-profiling website Humans of New York,in order to showcase the talents and stories of tech's best and brightest women working within the industry.
8299
St Mirren skipper Steven Thompson has apologised to team-mate John McGinn after accidentally spearing him with a training ground pole.
8300
Mr Fidler and his wife, Linda, went to such lengths to hoodwink locals and the authorities that they kept their son Harry, now 14, off playschool on the day his class were due to paint scenes of their homes.
8301
The victim said: 'Yes'.
The victim said: 'Yes’.
Asked by Miss Kelly if she had told them, she said: 'No, nobody at home knows what happened'.
8302
Teresa Sheldon, 38, from Dartford, Kent, has appeared in court charged with murdering her son Tommy and the attempted murder of another child who was also in the blazing Ford Fiesta.
8303
Jade says the attempt to shame and isolate her has ‘backfired’, as she is ‘feeling more loved and supported than ever’ The dental hygienist still doesn’t know who was responsible for the letter.
8304
The three-year-old was last seen dressed in a Spider-Man suit and playing in his grandmother's yard in broad daylight in a quiet street in Kendall last September.
8305
Hingis' match with world No 9 Radwanksa will be the 34-year-old's first singles match in eight years .
Career prize money: $20,974,066 .
8306
He led his country as captain in 28 of his 63 Tests and never lost a series .
Benaud led his country in 28 of his 63 Tests and never lost a series.
8307
Along with Rory McIlroy, Jordan Spieth is going to carry it for the next decade and what an exciting time it promises to be.’
Spieth 9 . Putting .
8308
Pietersen returned to nets at Surrey on Monday and left The Oval after training finished just before 2pm .
8309
Tesla's fortunes changed suddenly in May 2013 when the company reported its first profit after an intense drive overseen by Musk to address technical glitches yielded a sudden jump in Model S orders.
8310
A masked gunman who fired eight shots in a shopping mall remains on the run in Sydney's west hours after police started the manhunt.
8311
Hayleigh Mcbay, of Elgin in Moray, Scotland, pretended to dump her boyfriend David Clarke .
Hayleigh Mcbay, 17, pretended to dump David Clarke via WhatsApp at midnight for a joke.
A snapshot of the WhatsApp conversation Hayleigh, 17, had with her boyfriend David Clarke .
play video .
8312
The potential Republican presidential contender will be kicking off what his team has dubbed a 'Tell it like it is' town hall tour in Londonderry, New Hampshire on April 15.
8313
George Boyd is the Barclays Premier League's hardest working player, clocking up 210.5 miles on the pitch this season - the equivalent of running from Burnley's Turf Moor ground to Crystal Palace's Selhurst Park in south London.
8314
Up and down the country men and women, most with a beverage in hand, were yelling 'heads' or 'tails' as coins were thrown in the air.
8315
British banker Rurik Jutting appeared before a packed courtroom in Hong Kong on Thursday accused of the murder of two young Indonesian women whose mutilated bodies were found in his apartment.
8316
Upon arriving at the top, Kim Jong-Un greeted Korean People's Army pilots, telling them that the alleged climb had given him mental energy 'more powerful than nuclear weapons.'
8317
Oregon-based defense contractor FLIR Systems Inc. has agreed to pay $9.5 million to settle bribery charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission that involved expensive trips and gifts given to Middle Eastern government officials.
8318
When questioned by police, Bennett allegedly admitted to encouraging the fight but denied kicking the girl - saying she may have kicked her own daughter instead, according to the affidavit.
8319
The court heard that the charge relates to an offence on August 9 last year, when the pair are alleged to have handed out leaflets about ISIS on the busy shopping street, pictured .
8320
The bombshell allegation is that Juan Carlos was romancing Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein and was so smitten with her that he even contemplated divorcing his wife, Sofia, according to Final De Partida – or End Game – by Ana Romero, which sold out within 24 hours.
8321
Bloomin' expensive: One Bramble Ski customer requested a bouquet of lily of the valley flowers that had to be larger than the one Kate Middleton held on her wedding day.
8322
Lord Janner's alleged victims could sue him for £2.5million after being denied justice for the fourth time in 25 years when the CPS refused to prosecute him.
8323
Crown Princess Mary of Denmark cut a stylish figure as she attended a remembrance ceremony in Denmark on Thursday.
Striking:
Striking:
Elegant:
8324
Angel Gowns delivered Annabelle's dress on the day she was born and Ms Cox dressed her so the family could spend time her before she was buried .
8325
The bodies of Christine Fradeneck (top left), 2-year-old Celeste (being held by father) and 8-year-old Timothy III (called Trey, bottom left) were found Monday evening at the family's home in Eastpointe .
8326
The bodies of two people have been discovered amid wreckage after a small aircraft was reported missing around 30 miles east of Oban this afternoon .
8327
'The Brody WorkLounge creates a shelter from visual distractions, provides privacy and provides an enhanced sense of psychological security,' the company said on its website .
8328
We knew it was going to be a very hard game in difficult conditions, but I think we did well and we are so happy to get to Wembley and hopefully get to the final.'
8329
Barrier-breaking Bernard has served quietly as social secretary since February 2011, carefully avoiding the limelight, unlike his predecessor Desirée Rogers, the first African-American social secretary, who was forced out of the administration after just 13 months on the job.
8330
Eyewitnesses feared that one wrong move from the driver and the bus would slid into the estuary .
Eyewitnesses feared that one wrong move and the bus would slid into the estuary.
8331
Veteran actor Robert Hardy is selling his enormous collection of antiques in a £100,000 auction after deciding to downsize his home.
Star:
8332
The elder Jerry Tarkanian, who led the 1990 University of Nevada, Las Vegas men's basketball team to a national title, died in February, aged 84.
8333
Luigi Costa, 71, is accused of stomping on his elderly neighbour Terrence Freebody's head, cutting his throat and stabbing him multiple times in the dining room of his home on Mugga Way in Red Hill, Canberra on July 2012.
8334
Ms Eden fired back.
'I missed my stop because I wanted to stay on and make sure they were OK,' said Ms Eden, who was on her way home to Mascot .
8335
Uproar over a protest in which demonstrators walked on an American flag has prompted a south Georgia university to cancel classes ahead of the rally expected to draw crowds of flag supporters to Valdosta .
8336
The campaign was branded 'disrespectful' and 'disgusting' Supermarket customers took to Facebook and Twitter to vent their anger .
8337
It has gone on the market for £985,000, with historians eager to put it forward for listing to further protect its heritage.
8338
Ordinary British tennis fans face a Wimbledon-type scramble for Davis Cup quarter-final tickets this summer and are likely to end up with less than half the overall allocation.
8339
While they had all opted to pay a 1,600-peso fine (£70), the young woman had refused, and was then arrested.
He said the young woman 'assaulted a group of private guards'.
8340
'Haven't got a clue': The 60-year-old was also told he had not shown a pay and display ticket in his car, even though he has a valid car parking permit on his dashboard (pictured)
8341
Sharing candid photographs of his family's time in Gloriavale with Daily Mail Australia, Mr Overcomer said  he had been told there was 'a lot of sin' and 'bad things' in the greater world.
8342
Trooper Gababrd launched a manhunt for Kimmel and later found him on horseback again and according to the FloydCountyTimes, he resisted arrest, saying, 'I didn't do s***, I was just riding my horse.'
8343
Kevin Dixon, 35, of Newsome in West Yorkshire, took his friend's Akita-type dog for a walk to help her out and then hit it seven times with an axe - killing the animal.
8344
Earlier England had toiled before dismissing West Indies for 295, with the unlikely figure of James Tredwell finishing with four for 47 but Jimmy Anderson only being able to claim one more victim to remain one short of Sir Ian Botham’s England record of 383 Test wickets.
8345
Defending NBA champions San Antonio Spurs have stepped up their title defence preparation by taking part in an amusing music video which announced band Spuran Spuran.
8346
Bayern Munich doctor Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt, who has served the club for almost 40 years, has quit the Bundesliga club in the fall-out of their shock Champions League defeat by Porto.
8347
The election came just over a month after a Justice Department report detailed a culture of racism and abuse among city officials, employees and police .
8348
'I think if you asked a hundred footballers in general to go and try to re-enact them [each of the four superb goals from Adam, Bobby Zamora, Wayne Rooney and Jermain Defoe last weekend] the next day, I think more people would be able to kick the ball far and straight.'
8349
We were going for 10 days in Lanzarote over Easter.
East Midlands Airport said that 'no items may be permitted through security that resemble a prohibited item'
8350
Prime Minister David Cameron went head-to-head with six other party leaders in a TV debate on Thursday night in an unusual format for Britain.
8351
Agrobacterium is known to do something called ‘horizontal gene transfer’, which involves exchanging genes between different species - in contrast to normal gene transfer within one species.
8352
Now the singing priest has been compared to Italian nun Sister Christina who shot to fame after appearing in the Italian version of The Voice performing an Alicia Keys song.
8353
The group managed to succesfully roll the huge bus - which can carry up to 80 passengers - through the streets and on to the local depot.
8354
The 90ft long Keshwa Chaca remains thanks to local villagers who rebuild the bridge each year using the same techniques as their Inca ancestors .
8355
The MIND diet has 15 components, including 10 'brain-healthy food groups' — green leafy vegetables, other vegetables, nuts, berries, beans, whole grains, fish, poultry, olive oil and wine.
8356
Brazilian man, Nelson Felippe posted this image, expressing his disapproval at the 'scene'.
Worst of all is the example for children.
8357
Two whisky casks were given a royal seal as the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall visited a new distillery.
8358
Inter Milan are set to turn to Lucas Leiva and Alex Song if their pursuit of Manchester City pair Stevan Jovetic and Yaya Toure fails.
Jovetic?
8359
Jean Pockett, the widow of Private Arthur Herbert Pockett , is one of 10 war widows brought to Gallipoli by the Department of Veteran's Affairs for Anzac Day this Saturday on the Gallipoli Peninsular .
8360
Luxury personified: The Datai Hotel has all the colour and wonder of the Emerald City, says Maria McErlane .
I could see the creek below and hear the monkeys gossiping.
8361
AC Milan are ninth in the standings, one place an one point clear of Inter and seven points adrift of the Europa League qualifying places.
8362
Liverpool are watching Monaco midfielder Geoffrey Kondogbia.
Liverpool remain keen on bringing Danny Ings, whose contract expires in the summer, to Anfield from Burnley .
8363
Google's latest tool can't lock the missing phone, or erase its data and users will need to install the Android Device Manager (ADM) app if they want these features.
8364
John Joseph Shannon, from Liverpool, was found dead alongside his partner Anarda De La Caridad Perez Friman, 37, their six-week-old baby Eve and Perez Friman's daughter .
8365
Gavern, in his 50th fight, was dropped twice in the second round and twice more in the third before the contest was waved off in Newcastle.
8366
But while this tasty treat is being marketed as a healthier, low-calorie option, it still contains five grams of saturated fats, which is the equivalent of 25 per cent of your recommended daily intake.
8367
Pictured above leaving federal court in New Orleans, Louisiana in handcuffs after the court appearance .
The two pictured together above .
8368
Stuart McCall revealed captain Lee McCulloch apologised to him and the Rangers players after being sent off in the 2-1 win over runaway Scottish Championship winners Hearts at Ibrox.
8369
Armstrong initially declined comment on Howman's remark, but on Wednesday provided the AP with a May 2013 email exchange with Howman, who initially indicted he could meet with Armstrong, then backed off under advice from WADA lawyers.
8370
Roberto Martinez complained Seamus Coleman should have been awarded a free-kick before the Everton defender conceded the penalty that allowed Swansea to pinch a 1-1 draw at the Liberty Stadium.
8371
The second method will create dizygotic, or non-identical twins, who do not share the same genetic material and can therefore be born as different genders and with different physical characteristics.
8372
Another recording of a house filmed far away from its usual address was taken by Tianna Brien, who spotted a houseboat being swept away in Toronto, near Lake Macquarie, west of Newcastle.
8373
'We have to produce a great performance against one of the greatest teams in the history of Bayern,' Lopetegui, who is a former Barcelona and Spain team-mate of Guardiola, said in his pre-game press conference on Monday.
8374
Rafael Nadal's bid for a ninth Barcelona Open title ended in third-round defeat as Italian Fabio Fognini edged a hard-fought encounter 6-4, 7-6 (8-6) to move into the quarter-finals.
8375
Maximum security:
Aaron Hernandez will be held in maximum security in the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley, Mass .
8376
The cost for £575,000 on a three year lease would work out at £191,000 per year, or £15,000 per month - which is around the going rate for renting a three-bedroom flat in the area, plus renovation works which are needed, such as in the living room (pictured)
8377
While Root was the star of the day, this was hardly a failure for an England captain who has now made four scores of 70-plus in his last seven Test innings, but Cook would have given anything to have been able to add those extra, elusive 24 runs.
8378
Hillary Clinton's Secret Service-approved campaign van, nicknamed 'Scooby,' was photographed outside Jones Street Java House during a campaign visit on April 14 in Le Claire, Iowa .
8379
After the card was stolen, Mrs Craig travelled to Madrid where she was given documentation to prove that her card had been stolen.
8380
The Merfin, a  monofin made from recycled rubber that lets you experience what it might be like to swim like a mermaid, looks set to be the essential piece of beach play kit this summer.
8381
Ancient Jewish traditions say the Ark of the Covenant. which contained the Ten Commandments, may have been hidden away in a chamber when the First Jewish Temple was destroyed.
8382
Secretary of State John Kerry 'is delusional' if he expected to claim the Iranians agreed to the phased lifting of sanctions as part of a nuclear deal when they didn't and get away with it, says the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, John McCain.
8383
Their findings found that women who had been treated with tamoxifen - and those that had drunk at least two cups of coffee a day - had only half the risk of their cancer returning than those who drank less coffee, or none at all.
8384
Scorer(s): McShane 50 .
David Meyler was sent off for the visitors just three minutes after McShane pulled a goal back for a lunge on Kyle Naughton .
8385
Seeking to become just the sixth player in history to win all four major titles, McIlroy was one over par after 11 holes before recording birdies on the 13th and 15th to card a one-under-par 71.
8386
David Nellist, 38, of Keswick, Cumbria was foiled after a neighbour heard the young spaniel cross called Coco 'screaming'.
Coco has since been rehomed.
8387
James Houlder fell ill while on holiday with his partner Vicki Hood last summer at the Sonesta Beach Resort in Sharm El Sheikh, and is still suffering nine months on .
8388
During a dinner held in an Indian banquet hall in Morden, Blair (pictured last week in Newton Aycliffe, County Durham) name-checked Ed Miliband only once, devoting his speech instead to his own achievements .
8389
An enormous fight broke out at a bar opening at Resorts World casino in Queens, New York .
Scene: The fisticuffs took place at Resorts World Casino, near JFK airport in Queens, New York .
8390
Germany is guaranteed to move ahead of England at the end of this season, while if Italian clubs continue to perform well this season and English clubs fail to reverse their slump, the Premier League could end next season out of Europe's elite.
8391
Alaska Airlines Flight 448 bound for Los Angeles was forced to turn around and return to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport Monday when passengers heard banging and pleas for help coming from the cargo section of the jet.
8392
Ukip was today accused of performing yet another U-turn on its immigration policy after it ruled out setting a net migration target hours after Nigel Farage said he would like to see the figure reduced to 30,000.
8393
Alec Stewart is intrigued to hear more about the newly-created role of England cricket director.
'This is a great job that I'm thoroughly enjoying here.
8394
Moeen spinning in .
Five-star Jos .
Jos Buttler took five catches for the first time in a Test innings, only the second England 'keeper to do so .
8395
Suge is accused of murdering Carter and trying to murder Sloan, but claims he was ambushed and ran the men down in an escape attempt.
Killed:
8396
FC Rostov defender Ivan Novoseltsev popped the question after his side's 1-0 win against Torpedo Moscow on Monday night, getting down on one knee at the Olimp-2 stadium to ask Katerina Keyru to marry him.
8397
In April last year, Ms Edmunds sat her family down and told them she had cancer and doctors had given her just three years to live.
8398
The Australian retail giant, who own Just Jeans, Portmans, Dotti, Peter Alexander, Jacqui E, and Jay Jays, have so far refused to back down on their stance in using the controversial fur.
8399
George Kidd, the chief commissioner of The Direct Marketing Commission, said it would be investigating two firms .
8400
In the study, 11 male athletes were asked to fast for 12 hours, before a 90-minute endurance workout.
They were then given meals of either fast food or supplements.
8401
Joe beats Sachin to 2,000 .
Joe Root became the second-youngest England batsman to reach 2,000 Test runs, after Alastair Cook.
Joe Root's 182 not out
8402
The Spaniard played a pivotal part in setting up Neymar for the opening goal in the Catalan club's 2-0 second-leg win over PSG on Tuesday night at the Camp Nou, running from his own half before laying the ball on a plate for the Brazilian forward.
8403
Referee: Paul Tierney .
Lee had put Wednesday in front with a 36th-minute header before Kermorgant levelled midway through the second half.
8404
Flakka resembles a mix of crack cocaine and meth and it has a noticeably foul smell, WPBF 25 News reported.
8405
As manager of Rangers, Stuart McCall has learned to tolerate supporters booing their own players.
'If it hadn't turned itself round, I don't think we would've got back in the game.'
8406
The couple then dismantled the home, moved it to the Freret neighborhood of the city and renovated the home while respecting the floor plan and using salvaged materials to decorate the home .
8407
At training at Melwood on Thursday, Sterling will be treated no differently by Rodgers, just as Luis Suarez was dealt with evenly in the wake of interviews in the summer of 2013 in which he criticised his manager.
8408
Wednesday substitute Sergiu Bus opened the scoring in the 86th minute and Ishmael Miller, also on as a substitute, secured a point for his side with an equaliser just a minute from time.
8409
In four days time, Floyd Mayweather will go head-to-head with Manny Pacquiao in the Fight of the Century at the MGM Grand but he still had time to pose for a picture with Motown legend Gladys Knight.
8410
Disgraced former mayor Lutfur Rahman (pictured) is said to have played the race card to silence opponents - and his deputy today reiterated claims there is deep seated racism in the borough of Tower Hamlets, in east London .
8411
19-year-old was hospitalised with a broken neck, along with the driver, 20, and another 17-year-old passenger, both of whom suffered bruising and shock .
8412
Lady Sasima says her daughter was still angry about the corruption, explaining: 'The next day I am with friends at my house.
'I love this town,' she says.
8413
As she was trying to push the unidentified assailant out the door Fiona fell and bashed her face on the doorway .
It is unknown if the thefts were related.
8414
The advisory body says that the threat of opening a '.sucks' site to the average consumer later is 'an essential element of Vox Populi's coercive scheme.'
8415
Passengers can already fly from Paris Orly Airport to Barcelona from €35 to €65, to Dublin from €40 to €60, and to Lisbon for €40 to €120 on most days of the week between June 1 and October 24.
8416
Gwyneth Paltrow has vowed to live on just $29 worth of food for a week, after agreeing to take on a charity challenge aimed at raising awareness and funds for New York's food banks.
Visit site .
8417
Real Madrid striker Javier Hernandez earns his side Champions League victory with a late, late goal .
‘He knew he had to perform and he had a couple of chances to do it.
8418
A third man, Sultan Muhammad from Manningham, West Yorkshire - Khan's cousin - was convicted of three similar charges and one of making a record of information likely to be useful in terrorism.
8419
Price said that Gilmore's kids told her they hadn't ever seen her as happy as she was when she arrived in St. Louis to meet her biological mother.
8420
EE retires a pay-as-you-go number after 180 days of inactivity and O2 disconnects a pay-as-you-go phone after six months of no chargeable services.
8421
Research found that the cracking is caused by the rapid formation of a gas-filled cavity within a slippery substance called synovial fluid that lubricates the space between the finger bones .
8422
Kellie Maloney, pictured at Ukip's spring conference in February, now says that a vote for the party is 'wasted'
A vote for Ukip would be quite wasted I believe.
8423
Michelle Obama told Jimmy Fallon that she gets her daughters to eat vegetables by having a 'no treat' rule in the house if they choose not to eat healthy .
Visit site .
8424
Revealed: The 121-foot brig of the James McBride, which ran aground during a storm on October 19, 1857, has been revealed following ice-melt in Lake Michigan .
8425
Following the brutal assault, Los Angeles Superior Court awarded Mr Stow and his family $18 million against the LA Dodgers and the two men  who attacked him Louie Sanchez and Marvin Norwood.
8426
When the pair (pictured) got out, Dahbi also called them 'b*****', 'c****' and 'whores' after they refused to pay the fare and walked away .
8427
Wigan coach Shaun Wane says he wants Flower back 'a bit more aggressive and a bit stronger and a bit fitter'
We need a Ben Flower in our team.
8428
Jihad-watchers noticed thousands of accounts vanishing from the social network last week, most of them claiming to be linked to the extremists currently terrorising vast swathes of the Middle East .
8429
A mouse called Ventus X has a built-in honeycomb grill to let the skin breathe and a rugged coating so sweaty gamers can continue to the accessory.
8430
Mr Hicks' family, from Bath, took driver Mr Young to the High Court (pictured), where a judge ruled he had unlawfully imprisoned his passenger .
8431
The UK's unemployment rate is now 5.6 per cent, a fall of 1.3 per cent since a year ago.
In a live TV debate last night between opposition leaders, SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon warned Labour's Ed Miliband is not 'strong enough' to win the election alone and urged him to ditch austerity to kick the Tories out .
8432
Meier tops the Bundesliga with 19 goals, ahead of the Bayern Munich duo of Arjen Robben (17) and Robert Lewandowski (16).
Bas Dost, Wolfsburg (13) 4=.
8433
Northampton ruled George North out of their game against Clermont Auvergne on Saturday and sent him to see a neurosurgeon.
Clearly he had a nasty knock.
8434
One lucky English boxing fan managed to snare a ticket for the big fight at a cost of $7,924 (£5,265) and tweeted his booking confirmation on Thursday night.
8435
The 5.2 metre croc and his farmer would spend time together every day, and Mr Tabone said he was never frightened or felt he was in danger .
8436
World No 1 Mark Selby demolished Gary Wilson 10-2 in the final of the Baic Motor China Open on Sunday.
8437
Men of 75 can now expect to live 11 years and 15 weeks, with 13 years five weeks for women, while at 85, men can expect five years and 42 weeks, and women six years and 42 weeks.
8438
Andrea McVeigh, 44, has been left scarred for life after being knocked down by cyclist .
'I got hit by a speeding cyclist on the pavement,' said Mrs McVeigh.
8439
Ex-Big Brother star Josie Gibson, 30, (pictured) uploaded her selfie in aid of the campaign and admitted, 'I’ve not gone for so many opportunities because I have had such low self-esteem at the time'
8440
Newcastle boss John Carver insists his side have 'got six cup finals' left to play during the current campaign .
Carver said: 'We have got six cup finals.
8441
Killed:
Shot:
Marksman:
'Not every fish farmer is shooting seals, it's perfectly possible to protect fish without shooting seals.'
8442
They were flown by a U.S. Marine Corps helicopter to a Yuma hospital, where they were pronounced dead, Franklin said.
Tragic:
8443
Mr Hawley's death comes less than seven months after the sudden passing of Nicole and Antonia's father Dr. Antony Kidman, who also  suffered a suspected heart attack, in Singapore.
8444
Liverpool's players must focus on getting themselves and the club into the semi-finals of the FA Cup rather than Steven Gerrard, according to Reds legend Robbie Fowler.
8445
The Scottish FA issued a statement which read: 'The Scottish FA can confirm that Danny Lennon's interim appointment as Scotland Under 21 coach has now come to an end.
8446
Trinity and her mother had been arguing over who would sit in the front seat of the car when Trinity said she'd walk home, got out of the car and sat in the street.
8447
Make-up artist Abi Gordon-Cody creates gruesome injuries using special effects .
She tells Movie Pilot that even though she finds the Saw films 'hard to stomach', the special effects are incredible.
8448
Bolton defender Marc Tierney has been forced to take early retirement following a long-term ankle injury .
8449
It was in October that Sharon's husband Bernard 'Barry' Freundel was arrested after a police investigation revealed he had spied on dozens of women who changed in the ritual mikvah bathrooms at the Kesher Israel Congregation synagogue in D.C.
8450
Samsung is counting on its new flagship Galaxy S6 and S6 edge phones to help revive earnings momentum after a disappointing 2014.
8451
In a typical day, Miss Swindells will have two bowls of Rice Krispies with milk for breakfast, followed by a slice of bread and butter for lunch, and two bowls of Rice Krispies again for dinner .
8452
But not for three women who are not only scoring red carpet gigs and A-list actors but are now being dubbed 'power stylists' in Hollywood Reporter's 'Power Stylist for 2015' hit list, thanks to their A-list Aussie starlets.
8453
Opponent Doherty won the Crucible title in 1997 but Evans admits she is dreaming of making the main draw, which will require her and all the other 128 entrants to the preliminary draw to win three best-of-19-frame matches.
8454
'Last summer I felt the best I had in my career, I felt good with the ball, I felt confident.
I got some wickets and some good rhythm so it would be good to play that first Test.'
8455
A gang of fly-tippers have dumped a staggering 40 tonnes of industrial waste at the side of the road in a pretty Suffolk village.
Flytipping:
8456
He heads back to Eden Hazard, who then directs it on to John Terry followed by Drogba and Thibaut Courtois before John Obi Mikel stoops to knock the ball into a bin with a diving header.
8457
Visit site .
The visual artist also revealed that her fathers ex bandmates Dave Grohl, Krist Novoselic and Pat Smear get the 'K.C. Jeebies' when they see her, partially because she sounds just like Kurt.
8458
When looking for a good cut of meat to grill or use for steak and fajitas, you want cuts which have a good marbling of fat and also a tender joint which doesn't need to be beaten or stewed in order to bring out the flavours.
8459
Her story was turned into a televised BBC play and later a musical - both called Spend, Spend, Spend in honour of her catchphrase.
8460
Thousands of people, including hundreds of school children, lined the streets of Norfolk today to wave farewell to the Light Dragoons.
8461
Paige VanZant was never in trouble as she dominated Felice Herrig for he second UFC victory .
VanZant lays into Herrig on her way to a lop-sided points victory in New Jersey .
8462
Incredibly, with wreckage and bodies strewn over miles of countryside, the terrified 17-month-old twins were found huddled together in a rice paddy more than a day after the crash and later taken to their adoptive parents in the U.S. who had earlier been told they were dead.
8463
The Stasi - East Germany's secret police - forced people to pose for their pictures, showing exactly how they had planned to escape from the German Democratic Republic .
8464
Despite the programme being set in Surbiton, south-west London, the famous front and rear garden scenes were filmed at Ms Elkan's home in north-west London .
8465
La Gazzetta Sportiva said Tevez was 'laying the eggs' for Juventus taking their fourth straight Serie A title, while Tuttosport praised the size of Juve's 15-point advantage, which could be lowered to 13 if Roma beat Atalanta on Sunday.
8466
Matej Vydra's superb volley helped keep Watford on the trail for automatic promotion as they recorded a 2-0 victory over a spirited Millwall side, who sank further into relegation trouble.
8467
At daybreak, police said city parks officials ordered the sculpted Snowden removed from the top of Prison Ship Martyrs Monument, which honors the 11,500 patriots who died aboard British prison ships during the Revolutionary War.
8468
Mr Milstein said he became interested in black boxes after being asked to take photographs of one after a helicopter crash in Ottawa, Canada .
8469
Rangers boss Stuart McCall has delivered a sharp rebuke to David Templeton after the winger criticised the training-ground methods deployed by the manager's predecessors, Ally McCoist and Kenny McDowall.
8470
Rogue planets are of particular interest to astronomers because they represent objects that have likely failed to form into a star .
8471
Although Yamkovskaia (pictured) specializes in owls, piglets, cats, pandas and bears are other animals which feature in her collection .
8472
Atherton - whose sister has an extreme phobia of snakes - scooped up the reptile and placed it inside a plastic food recycling box (pictured)
8473
A veteran of 63 Test matches, Benaud played a pivotal role in the formation of World Series Cricket in the 1970s and was one of the world's most recognised commentators.
8474
Warwickshire batsman Trott touched down in the West Indies with England on Thursday night, back in the international set-up for the first time since leaving last winter's Ashes tour with a stress-related illness.
8475
In March 2012 (right) Mr Cameron was said to have tried eating one sideways while at a basketball game with President Obama .
8476
Meanwhile, the grinning Labour leader took charge of his own selfie shot, as he posed with staff during a campaign visit to Airedale Hospital maternity ward in Keighley, Yorkshire, on Saturday.
Cameron offers his advice to a supporter as he poses up for a selfie, while campaigning alonside local Conservative candidate Anne-Marie Trevelyan in Alnwick .
8477
Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has given Azerbaijan the all-clear ahead of its debut next season despite serious concerns over the country's human rights record.
8478
Brook Lopez dominated twin brother Robin with 32 points and nine rebounds as the Brooklyn Nets beat a weakened Portland Trail Blazers on Monday in the only game on the NBA schedule.
8479
Manny Pacquiao wrote and recorded Lalaban Ako Para Sa Filipino for his walk-out music when he fights Floyd Mayweather and US talk show host Jimmel Kimmel has performed it on his live show .
8480
Months of searching and a $500 cash reward proved fruitless.
Her puppies, who have all found adoptive homes, will remain with her until they have stopped nursing.
8481
Brisbane locals were left scratching their heads after the mysterious message 'I'm sorry' followed by a love heart and two crosses for kisses was splashed across the city's clear blue sky on Monday afternoon.
8482
Former Tech. Sgt. Jennifer Smith,  (pictured) who said she was sexually assaulted by a fellow airman in Iraq, brought forward the songbook and she had filed an administrative complaint over the book in 2012 .
8483
COUNT 24: GUILTY . Possession and use of a firearm (a Ruger P95 9mm semiautomatic handgun and Pressure Cooker Bomb #3) during and in relation to a crime of violence; aiding and abetting .
8484
Liverpool are making a rival push for Manchester United target Memphis Depay.
Liverpool hope to convince 21-year-old Depay that he would get more regular football with them .
8485
Tax adviser Duncan Hodgetts (pictured), from Birmingham, West Midlands, worked for accountancy firm Ernst and Young .
'He was such a lovely young man.
8486
One woman  called the video 'horrible' and another said 'I hate crocodiles now'.
One social media user called the video 'horrible' and another said 'I hate crocodiles now'
8487
Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Australia got off to a very dramatic start in Sydney on Sunday night, when the opening show was interrupted by a man who stormed the runway at the Ellery show.
8488
Previous research found a relatively small magma chamber, known as the upper-crustal magma reservoir, directly beneath the surface in 2013 that measures 2,500 cubic miles (10,420 cubic km).
8489
Tottenham have held further talks with Ligue 1 side Marseille over a possible deal for Florian Thauvin .
8490
Mr Carr set off from Haytor on Dartmoor in July 2013 and returned last night after 621 days, during which he ran the equivalent of a marathon a day, crossed 26 countries and got through 16 pairs of shoes .
8491
The RSPCA says the Husky has an injury to his right rear leg, possibly the result of being hit by a car.
Scroll down for video .
8492
Australian Federal Police Acting Commissioner Michael Phelan said the investigation ramped up in recent days after it had become 'very obvious' the men had 'specific plans' in place.
8493
The French state railway company on Monday demanded police action against 'irresponsible' Paris-Roubaix cycle race riders who breached a safety barrier seconds before a high speed train hurtled by.
8494
Pietersen looked in deep thought as he sat right at the end of the team photo, but was otherwise in a jovial mood as a potentially sensational return to the England set-up took a step closer.
8495
Dr Sarah Wollaston, the outgoing Tory chairman of the Commons health select committee, last night called for Mr Hornby to step down and for a criminal investigation into Pharmacy 2U.
8496
He now plans to make a third application for asylum.
Keita claims his coaches told him he lost the fight 'like a baby' and there would be trouble when he returned .
8497
Roberto Carlos, pictured holding the Champions League trophy in 2000, makes Buffon's team .
Roberto Baggio scored 27 goals in 56 appearances for Italy and makes Buffon's all-time XI .
8498
Thousands of sea creatures are on display when guests book themselves into one of two visually stunning underwater hotel rooms at the five-star Atlantis, The Palm resort in Dubai.
8499
Pilots have reported 167 cases of toxic cabin fumes or smoke in only four months, official safety figures reveal.
Safety questions:
Warning:
8500
Questioning 1713 Brits and 1124 Americans, the survey revealed that after the excitement of a baby boy in blue in 2013, this time around, both desire a baby girl.
8501
The 65-year-old was named as the recipient on Saturday in recognition of his 45 years chronicling conflicts around the world.
8502
Police across Malawi have been ordered to shoot anyone caught attacking albinos, while Tanzania's prime minister has urged citizens to kill anyone found with albino body parts.
8503
Ryan DeNiro and Jessica Castro are still going through a rough patch after he allegedly called her 'Monroe' lip-piercing 'trashy' last week .
8504
Every one of Africa's 54 member countries will vote for Sepp Blatter in next month's FIFA presidential election, the continent's soccer boss said on Tuesday, referring to the 79-year-old Swiss as 'dear Sepp.'
8505
Still, despite the external factors, it's been a good year for Thomas Cook, which has reduced delays by 37 per cent, and British Airways also saw an 11 per cent reduction in stoppages.
8506
In the video, which has been viewed over 800,000 times, Mr Vale calls on Australians to make it their business to attend an Anzac Day service and show the Anzacs the respect they deserve.
8507
She recalls how a small gang including 19-year-old Princess Elizabeth, Princess Margaret, 15, and Mrs Rhodes’s brothers, left the Palace by the Privy Gate.
8508
Mrs Lutkin, 49, had a rose surrounded by the names grandchildren Harvey, seven, Harvey Junior, six, and Cooper, one, tattooed above her left ankle in November 2013.
8509
Neyen, who's battled kidney disease much of her life, received her kidney after her husband--who was not a match for her--gave his kidney to someone else in need.
8510
A woman who died suddenly was eaten by her pet dogs after her body lay undiscovered for days, an inquest was told.
Eaten:
8511
Sergeant Dan Urman's father Eitan Urman was so happy that as he embraced his son and lifted him off the ground, he slipped on the ice, causing both to tumble over while still hugging.
8512
The FBI once noted that Yaphank contained 150 to 300 children who 'used to wear a uniform like that of the Hitler Youth in Germany.'
Nazi salute:
8513
All of the cats that live at the cafe were rescued from a local shelter and have each been vaccinated and chipped.
8514
Lady Natasha also has a fashion connection to the Duchess and runs one of  Kate and Pippa's favourite brands, Beulah London, alongside fashion designer and best friend, Lavinia Brennan.
8515
To create the maps, Mr Hare used more than 6.5 billion measurements collected between 2009 and 2013 by the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter Wide Angle Camera (Wac) and the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO).
8516
The Pulitzer committee at Columbia University in New York said The New York Times staff shared the prize for international reporting for its coverage of the deadly Ebola epidemic in west Africa.
8517
After an awkward exchange with Ivan Loncsarevity at the plant in Essex, Mr Farage was quick to insist he did not want to send EU migrants home to stop them taking the jobs of young Britons.
8518
They're newlyweds settling down in their dream home, and this weekend it was reported that George and Amal Clooney have submitted plans to improve their £10million Berkshire mansion - which include the addition of a 12-seater cinema.
8519
Yaakov Naumi’s fascinating photographs include a man lying in a grave to prolong life, a chicken being walked on a piece of string and men tying a rope to a bride and dancing around her.
8520
Police allege the man used a range of social media sites to prey on children under the age of 16 and in some cases arranged meetings so he could physically abuse them and use them to make child pornography.
8521
Unfortunately for Her Majesty, her horse  was narrowly pipped to the post - prompting a brief look of horror and a rueful smile from her owner.
8522
Newcastle are currently 19th in the annual Deloitte report into football’s rich list, but they do not have the same financial muscle as Manchester United (£371m), Manchester City (£277m), Chelsea (£277m), Arsenal (£219m), Liverpool (£208m) and Tottenham (£153m).
8523
The Matt Hampson foundation's event was on Wednesday, named after the former England U21 prop (left) Andy Goode tweeted: 'Bad values from @ChristianWade3 agreeing to come to a charity event for @Hambofoundation then saying he's too tired, poor culture & no trust'
8524
Those rated highly for looks often scored well for sound too, with the study finding a ‘significant relationship between males’ ratings of female faces and voices (file picture)
8525
But the swinging ball is not a new phenomenon, especially to an opener brought up in England, and Cook has to score runs against the moving ball now if he is going to prolong his Test career.
8526
Provodnikov (24-3) put Matthysse on the ropes late in the third round and landed two hard right hook-left hook combos in the fourth before Matthysse (37-3) regained control in the fifth.
8527
Tottenham (substitute, 88) Mar 4 West Ham (substituted, 74) Mar 11 Paris Saint Germain (substituted, 45) Mar 15 Southampton (substituted, 82) Mar 22 Hull (substitute, 61) Apr 4 Stoke (substituted, 45)
8528
Usain Bolt walked into a small gym at the base of Rio de Janeiro's Mangueira favela on Thursday, took three shots on the basketball court - at least one from 3-point range - and made all three.
8529
Major storyline: Schofield will be playing Nick (left), a mentor of sorts to the character of Maya Avant, played by Karla Mosley (right)
8530
'Do not attend the Boston Marathon or any related events or . gatherings,' Judge George O'Toole told jurors in U.S. District . Court in Boston, describing the sentencing phase as 'sensitive.'
8531
Two men died at the scene as a result and the surviving man was taken to nearby Fairfield Hospital in a serious condition.
8532
Tottenham Hotspur are moving forward with the next step towards their new stadium development at White Hart Lane with demolition beginning on the final opponent to the move, Archway Sheet Metal Works.
8533
5/5 .
Nutrition: 197 cals, 14g sugar, 0.35g salt, 34g carbs, 3.4g fat .
Nutrition: 204 cals, 13.4g sugars, 0.33g salt, 34.8g carbs, 5.4g fat .
Nutrition: 203 cals, 18.1g sugar, 0.47g salt, 36.5g carbs, 3.4g fat .
Nutrition: 209 cals, 19.5g sugar, 0.33g salt, 40.4g carbs, 2.4g fat .
8534
To celebrate the launch of the new spring/summer collection, Andy, an avid surfer, stars in a campaign shot on West Wittering Beach, the closest surf school to London.
8535
'I'm getting hydrophobic.'
Clint's wife Bonnie, 67, posted the two-minute clip on Facebook and it has been viewed almost 30 million times .
8536
A man appeared in court today charged with the murder of Syrian preacher Abdul Hadi Arwani, who was found dead in his car in Wembley last week.
8537
In a statement, the FAA said: 'SkyWest Airlines Flight 5622, an Embraer E170 aircraft, landed safely at Buffalo International Airport at 11.40am after the crew declared an emergency.
8538
This is despite the Child Marriage Restraint Act, passed  during British rule in 1929, specifying that a girl must be 18 and a boy 21 before they can wed.
8539
He added: ‘Equality for women: A few people battled away to get it, they got it, and they have buggered up the game for a lot of people.’
8540
Videoed behind a fence, the bird initially makes a sinister noise like a distorted voice before creating an almost digital sound.
8541
Trained as a sharpshooter and sent to fight on the frontline in 1941, aged 25, Pavlichenko was said to have killed 309 Nazis in less than a year during battles in Odessa and the strategic city of Sevastopol on Ukraine's Crimea peninsula.
8542
While both Mr and Mrs Peppelman had chainsaw cuts to their body, Montgomery County District Attorney says only Mrs Peppelman's death is being classified as a homicide currently.
8543
A company has copped a spray after making the 'tasteless decision' to link its product to the tragic murder of school teacher Stephanie Scott.
8544
The latest polls have the two main parties locked on around 35 per cent, pointing to another hung Parliament on May 7.
8545
Using this method he's already created several prototype pieces and has a field in Derbyshire where he's currently tending a crop of 400 tables, chairs and lampshades  which he hopes to harvest next year.
8546
Awel Manyang, pictured here as a baby with her mother Akon Guode, believes her three siblings who died in the crash at a Melbourne lake were eaten by crocodiles in the water .
8547
Oskar Groening (pictured earlier in the hearing) is being tried on 300,000 counts of accessory to murder and faces up to 15 years in jail if convicted .
8548
Lopez, who played AC Slater in the hit high school comedy Saved By The Bell, says he and Pacquiao are friends from their time training at the same gym in Los Angeles.
8549
A survey revealed Birmingham to be the rat capital of the UK while the London Borough of Southwark has the most mice, cockroaches and bed bugs .
8550
Google vice president Megan Smith left her job to become Obama's chief technology officer .
Both Google and the FTC said at the time that there was no undue influence.
8551
In southern Germany, hundreds of people braved the snow for a traditional Easter Monday procession on horseback, while in Slovakia women were doused with buckets of water as part of their weekend celebrations.
8552
Police in Oregon are enlisting the help of the public to identify a mystery motorcyclist who saved the day after Edward West, 59 (photographed) allegedly threatened two teens with a handgun .
8553
It took the El Dorado Superior Court jury in less than two hours to convict Colleen Harris of murdering Robert Edward 'Bob' Harris in their Placerville, California home in 2013.
8554
Xabi Alonso dithered under pressure from Jackson Martinez on the edge of the penalty area and when the Spanish referee deemed the Porto forward’s challenge legal the Colombian eased clear and was felled by goalkeeper Manuel Neuer.
8555
The final shirt available to supporters has an 'M' for Mayweather over a 'P' for Pacquiao, and is the cheapest of the four on offer.
8556
On Saturday, Mexican authorities confirmed the capture  of Jose Tiburcio Hernandez Fuentes who was transferred to Mexico city.
8557
The pub chain has apologised to Mr Curry, from Ashington, but said a no-tracksuit policy had been in place at the bar since 2013.
8558
Dr Kujala said physical activity has already been linked to a number of health benefits, such as lower levels of body fat, reduced heart disease risk factors, better memory and thinking, and a lower risk of type 2 diabetes.
8559
Last December photos emerged of a huge garage sale Knowles was having in Houston, where selling both Beyoncé and old Destiny's Child memorabilia to raise money.
8560
Burger of Saracens tackles Harlequins ace Chris Robshaw in the Aviva Premiership match .
‘It’s going to take a big game to bring it home,’ said Burger.
8561
Ms Alende, the competition's vice champion,  better known as the Brazilian 'Megan Fox', today waded into the furore, claiming she had been left 'shocked and ashamed' by her rival's risqué Easter stunt.
8562
Police charged 34-year-old Paul Johnson-Yarosevich of Acton, Maine, on Monday with prohibited use of computer after they say they discovered he'd been fooling a pre-teen girl into sending him inappropriate photos of herself by posing as a young girl on social media .
8563
Gregg Manderson, 68, of St Paul, Minnesota, first sought medical attention after he got Twinkle Little Star trapped inside his mind last May, setting off nearly twelve months of doctors his mind shuffling between tunes that are stuck on repeat.
Dr Khalaf Alla Bushara (left) of the Minneapolis VA Medical Center (right) is trying to help cure Manderson by playing the song repeatedly in hopes that he will tune it out .
8564
His horned head is then craned to the branches where he proceeds to nibble up leaves.
The donkey barely moves as its buttocks and sides are prodded.
8565
He was 30 years old at the time.
Bruce Davis held Gary Hinman, a friend, at gunpoint while Charles Manson (pictured) sliced his face open with a sword .
8566
Fowler seemed to snub Premier League players when picking his centre-backs and although Hierro had a spell at Bolton in his twilight years, it was at Real Madrid where the former Spain record goal scorer made his mark.
8567
Mr Mason is now preparing to undergo an operation in the U.S. after plastic surgeon Dr Jennifer Capla, from Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, offered to carry out the procedure for free .
8568
Mr Cameron will say the Conservative party will one day be the party of the first black or Asian prime minister .
The party of the first Jewish prime minister.
8569
Planning proposal: Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, one of the world’s richest men, is looking to build a six-storey car park to house his fleet .
8570
Robert Elstone, Chief Executive of Everton Football Club, said: 'In the last few hours, the world of football has been moved to express great sadness, great admiration and, above all else, great respect for Sir Philip Carter.
8571
Its more than a year since the day Perth father Paul Weeks (right) boarded the Beijing-bound flight in Kuala Lumpur.
8572
A four-year-old child climbed under a temporary bike rack along Pennsylvania Avenue triggering Secret Service to put the president residence under lock down for a few moments .
August 2014:
8573
Tomas Berdych is his opponent in the semi-final of the Miami Open, the man Murray met — and eventually beat — at the same stage of the Australian Open in January.
8574
Medical departments have to do the same, if they want to be top medical departments like our department is.
'The safe medical department cannot work with me.
8575
Prosecutors say Longo (top right) killed his family to 'escape the shackles of domestic life' Longo (left) is played by Franco in the movie which is based on the relationship he built with shamed New York Times journalist Mike Finkel - who fabricated a story .
8576
Porto manager Julen Lopetegui said his side can now dream of reaching the semi-finals, but they will need to be 'perfect' in the second leg.
8577
Slager, 33, who is white, said that he felt 'threatened' by Scott, who is black, during a confrontation over his Taser, but video shows the civilian running away before being shot.
8578
The aspiring Las Vegas designer was shot as a car occupied by multiple people drove past while she was talking to the women, and she died in hospital shortly afterwards .
8579
President of the Victorian Farming Federation, Peter Tuohey, congratulated TV presenter Gorgi Coghlan after she voiced her strong support for the wool industry on The Project on Tuesday .
8580
Marian Carole Rees was 13 when she disappeared from Hillsdale in southern Sydney in early April 1975 after telling a friend that she had forgotten something and jumped off her school bus.
8581
Each of the 5.56mm rounds, pictured, used in the SA-80 assault rifle costs approximately 50p .
A further two million 9mm rounds were fired from handguns.
8582
Libby Jane Wilson was enjoying a day out with her father Alex Knight at the Yarrow Valley Country Park in Chorley, Lancashire on Sunday afternoon when she was pounced on by the pet, which bit her face.
8583
Skipper John O'Shea has challenged Sunderland to keep their fate in their own hands by securing a fifth successive derby victory over Newcastle.
8584
McCallum (left) was sentenced to 20 - 45 years' in jail for the killing of Francesca Weatherhead, who had only months before married her college sweetheart Matthew (pictured together right)
8585
An American soldier was killed in a shooting incident Wednesday in the eastern Afghan city of Jalalabad in which at least two other U.S. troops were wounded when an Afghan soldier opened fire at them, a U.S. official said.
8586
The 25-year-old athlete (left) was found guilty Wednesday of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole in the 2013 shooting death semi-professional football player Odin Lloyd (right)
8587
‘I’m ticking over, just waiting at the moment,’ Froch told Sportsmail.
Froch is still keen to fight in Las Vegas and would be open to travelling to America to fight Chavez .
8588
Dinning in style: Spread over 3,054 square feet it boasts two spacious reception rooms, a study and a modern state-of-the art kitchen and breakfast room .
8589
Leanne said: 'When I started working at Co-op, I found out that lots of food was discounted at the end of the shift.
And I've never felt better.'
8590
Madrid's players mob Ronaldo (second left) after he scored his 300th goal for the club on Wednesday .
8591
Ocean Spray Cranberry Classic juice drink (pictured left) was found to have 11g of sugar per 100ml, which is more than the amount in a can of Coca-Cola (right) It said children under the age of ten get almost a fifth of their sugar intake from soft drinks.
8592
Ding would have pocketed £30,000  for a maximum break, which has only been achieved 10 times in the world championships at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield.
8593
According to TLC, one in ten Londoners have experienced unwanted sexual behaviour on public transport, but 90 per cent of these incidents go unreported.
8594
Other research, also by Kantar, showed that Aldi overtook Waitrose as Britain's sixth biggest supermarket with its performance in the first three months of 2015, increasing share of the whole supermarket industry from 4.6 top 5.3 per cent in a year.
8595
Rory McIlroy's powers of persuasion have resulted in US Open champion Martin Kaymer, former world number one Luke Donald and American Ryder Cup star Patrick Reed confirming their participation in the Dubai Duty Free Irish Open.
8596
A 41-year-old father has been arrested in Phoenix over the death of his two-year-old son, who police say was left locked in a car in temperatures of up to 93 degrees for over two hours.
8597
Maidstone Crown Court heard how Dunn was caught after police examined two cigarette butts found in Mr Garrod's garden - both of which had DNA linking to the attacker .
8598
The 4,000-year-old tree is 'looking extremely sick,' according to a warden at the church in Ashbrittle, Somerset .
'Experts say it is 3,500 to 4,000 years old.
8599
On Saturday night, the Belfast boys are potentially both one win away from qualifying for next summer's Olympic Games, with Barnes needing to ensure victory while Conlan must do likewise and depend on another result elsewhere.
8600
A hilarious manufacturing mistake means some police officers will have the word 'POLICE' written upside down on their uniforms (pictured)
8601
Sky Sports pundit Gary Neville has laid into referee Lee Mason after he failed to award Newcastle a penalty during their 2-0 defeat at Liverpool on Monday night.
8602
Ms Scott's father (second from left) says he has contemplated the afterlife since Ms Scott's shocking death, but is confident that his sweet daughter is in 'the best possible place' after living a life full of love and happiness .
8603
At last, some good news for Sunderland and Newcastle United — apparently form goes out of the window in a derby.
For the Toon Army, it is ‘The Derby of Disillusion’.
8604
He was found hiding in a nearby bush after fleeing the vehicle.
The court then heard the pair drove an Audi A6 and Vauxhall Astra from a driveway in Oswestry, Shropshire .
8605
Setting up costs: Trussell Trust asks for a 'donation' of £1,500 from churches and community groups .
Its most recent accounts show an annual income of nearly £3.4million.
8606
Dylan Lauren and her husband Paul Arrouet (pictured) welcomed fraternal twins into the world on Monday via a surrogate .
'Good things come in twos.'
8607
'Incredibly, this is all through crime, run on Facebook while in prison.'
Lynch is serving nine years in Bedford Prison (pictured) for a series of violent gang robberies .
8608
Literally.
'I think a lot of people are going to have a bit of fun with this, but they can't say I wasn't focused and went to the line.'
8609
Reasons they can win the Champions League… .
Bayern have an excellent Champions League pedigree, with a coach in Pep Guardiola who won this competition twice at Barcelona and a squad that has retained its best players since beating Borussia Dortmund in the final at Wembley two years ago.
Reasons they can win the Champions League… .
Reasons they can win the Champions League...
8610
The video, complete with dry ice, glittering podiums and the obligatory key change, is designed to show that despite their claims to the contrary, the Tories, Lib Dems, Labour and Ukip are all singing the same tune on cuts, public services and immigration.
8611
The plane is a Boeing 767-300ER.
One passenger told NBC that it felt like 'King Kong picked up the plane and shook it like there was no tomorrow'.
8612
Labour has paid lip service to the plan, promising just £2.5billion.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said Labour must explain why it won't find the money the NHS 'says it needs'
8613
Yoomi's self-warming baby bottle promises to gently warm a baby's feed to the natural temperature of breast milk in just 60 seconds, meaning there's no need for Wills to even get out of bed when helping with night-time feeds.
8614
The panel will also consider the case of Leicester centre Vereniki Goneva, cited for striking Saracens' Kelly Brown with his forearm in the same game, but the player has chosen not to attend.
8615
More than 38,000 marathon runners in London yesterday were caught on the brink of the cold front, as cloudy, damp weather greeted them at the start.
8616
Dry foods are things such as potato chips, lollies, nuts, biscuits, crackers and uncooked rice or pasta.
Sausages should never be picked up - five-second rule or not .
8617
A pregnant model whose sexy selfies have turned her into an overnight internet sensation has snapped yet another lingerie-clad photo of herself flaunting a barely-there baby bump - just 10 days before she is due to give birth.
You look absolutely gorgeous @sarahstage #amazing [sic],' one fan wrote.
Two weeks ago, she shared a sexy snapshot of herself in black underwear and responded to her haters.
8618
Fears about vaccines and autism began to spread after the publication in 1998 of an article by Andrew Wakefield that purported to find a link between the MMR vaccine and autism in 12 children.
8619
Pictured is the W hotel in Fort Lauderdale, Flordia, where Kaufman is accused of spending $832 of Blue Shield's money on a single night with Reid .
8620
Mr Osborne said he never 'personally felt low' about being booed at the Paralympics in 2012, but had to explain it to his children .
8621
The Prime Minister, wearing a traditional orange patka, and Mrs Cameron, in a blue headscarf, chatted and posed for selfies at the Gravesend Gurdwara in Kent earlier today.
8622
They want to break up global population into 14 sub-populations.
Ten of these would be deemed ‘not at risk’, two would be ‘threatened’ and two would remain ‘endangered’.
8623
The most famous boxer to make the move to mixed martial arts is former world champion James Toney who fought Randy Couture in 2010.
8624
Once the final sprint drill had been completed, however, the 30-year-old made a dash for the supporter and removed his training shirt.
8625
The archive includes a confidential report from a polygraph examiner, who wrote that McVeigh had wanted to `take out' the Murrah Building on April 19, 1995.
8626
Arsenal should target Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech if he leaves Stamford Bridge at the end of the season, insists Carlo Cudicini.
8627
More than 35 players from Africa have played in the NBA since Hall of Famer and two-time NBA champion Hakeem Olajuwon was drafted in 1984.
8628
Brittany Lyn Hilbert of Orlando, Florida was charged with domestic violence battery and battery of a person over 65-years-old .
Multiple drug charges:
8629
Another 11 earned £400,000 to £499,999 from the NHS, 30 received £300,000 to £399,999, 131 pocketed £200,000 to £299,999 and 1,617 received £100,000 to £199,999.
8630
Peter Moores, who is preparing to coach England in their Test series here in the Caribbean, said on Thursday he could work with Vaughan even though the pair had an uneasy relationship when they were captain and coach in 2007.
PLAYERS HE LIKES:
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
REASON IT MIGHT NOT:
PLAYERS HE LIKES:
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
8631
Billed by the brand as 'perfect for every blushing bride', the underwear and loungewear collection comes in soft palettes of ivory and nude, and is not without a raunchy streak.
Items are available in sizes 8-12 and 32A-38DD.
8632
Carl Jenkinson (left) says Jack Grealish should follow his heart when choosing Ireland or England .
That would be a fantastic season if we could finish in eighth.
8633
The list price of Bentleys ranges from £136,250 to £224,700, yet the manufacturer and Porsche finished bottom of a 38-strong table judged on reliability .
8634
The father-of-three hoped to boost Carter's confidence by posting the picture, which has received nearly 1.5 million since it was posted last week .
8635
Sandro has defended former manager Harry Redknapp, saying he is not at fault for QPR’s predicament near the foot of the Premier League.
8636
Manchester United goalscorer Sean Goss (centre left) is congratulated by James Wilson (left) and Robin van Persie (centre right) Goss levelled the scoreline in the 32nd minute by wriggling past Leicester's defence before scoring past the helpless Adam Smith .
8637
Guilty:
Mason, who was jailed for 15 months in November last year, has said he will pay back the whole £185,000 out of his RBS pension pot.
8638
Bernie Madoff, who carried out one of the world's largest frauds, tried to persuade his drug dealer's girlfriend to become his mistress, it has emerged.
8639
Looking up at Eric in excitement, the dog waits for the trainer to say ‘one’ and complete a press-up before following suit and completing one of its own.
8640
Bosses and employees and also parents and children, might all find it easier to get on at the table while dinner may not be the best idea for a first date.
8641
As a Rangers diehard who once saw Treble dreams evaporate in the wake of a refereeing error that favoured Celtic, John Brown takes a predictably wry view of the anguish emanating from Parkhead in recent days.
8642
Tidal is billed as the first artist-owned platform for music and video and the service aims to compete directly with Spotify and Apple's music service, headed by Dr Dre.
8643
Even before Klopp's shock announcement, it looked highly likely that Hummels would be leaving at the end of the season, most likely to Manchester United.
8644
Wisconsin will play Duke, an 81-61 winner over Michigan State in the earlier semi-final, at the Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis on Monday night.
8645
Mr Hand and his wife were told that because they don't claim any income support or benefits, they would have to earn 'virtually nothing' to receive the grant .
8646
The White House doubled down today on President Barack Obama's Earth Day message that climate change is 'a problem now' and knocked political figures who disagree with him as climate deniers and opportunists.
8647
De La Hoya was defeated by Mayweather in 2007 on a split decision after 12 rounds, losing the WBC light middleweight title.
8648
Stoke manager Mark Hughes has also persuaded Barcelona's 19-year-old winger Mohamed El Ouriachi to join this summer.
8649
She continues to say that she hopes brands like Lane Bryant will learn from women like her, as well as other plus-size women on social media, that customers want to see diverse models in their ads campaigns.
8650
After the owl drove the kestrels away he managed to attract a mate to share his new home - but the kestrels found an alternative nesting box in Mr Fuller's garden.
8651
The 62-year-old had all of his personal identification stolen - so struggled to apply for a place at a homeless shelter.
'At that time, it was Landmark Bank.
8652
Local residents in Alderholt, Dorset, pictured, awoke on Sunday to find an Easter egg on every doorstep .
It's never happened before and I've lived here for 20 years.'
8653
Bridget Olinda Garcia, 32, had confiscated her 13-year-old's mobile phone and was preparing to leave their home in Port St. Lucie, south-east Florida, following 'a brief altercation'.
8654
Gary and Phil Neville, Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt and Paul Scholes will no doubt partying hard on Tuesday night after Salford City clinched the Evo-Stik League First Division North title, with the club gaining promotion on a very fitting 92 points.
8655
THE CHAMPIONSHIP .
LEAGUE TWO .
Burton will be promoted with a win at Morecambe if Wycombe fail to win at AFC Wimbledon or Bury lose at Portsmouth.
8656
After admitting to focusing more on her outfits following her appearance on Strictly Come Dancing last year, Mrs Murray, 55, broke with tradition on Saturday by wearing a white coat, the same colour, as the stunning Jenny Packham gown worn by bride, Kim Sears.
8657
West Ham’s pledge to cut ticket prices for their Olympic Stadium move has upset clubs who regard the move as cynical, given the Hammers’ favourable tenancy deal in Stratford.
8658
The video, shot on Kempink's body camera, showed the deputy jumping a fence as he went to investigate a burglar alarm  going off at the property last Friday.
8659
But he bounced back to win his first major title by eight shots in the US Open two months later, before adding wins in the 2012 US PGA and both the Open and US PGA last year.
8660
Not random: Police said the shooting was preceded by some sort of an exchange between the occupants of the black sedan and the silver Chevy and initially believed it was a road rage incident gone wrong .
8661
East Lancashire Railway’s award-winning 1940s Weekend is a highlight in many a vintage enthusiast’s calendar, and this year’s event is expected to be the best yet with more activities than ever.
8662
ITV pundit Roy Keane offered his sympathy to Luiz, describing the defender's performance as looking 'lost'
'They were a better team than us in both games.
8663
$2 milllion of the $2.5 million he took was recovered by the U.S. Government and he has spent 40 years helping catch criminals.
8664
So I would like to understand your analysis of how you know that in a ten year long, court case, that you have enough detail to know.'
8665
The Cheyenne mountain bunker is a half-acre cavern carved into a mountain in the 1960s that was designed to withstand a Soviet nuclear attack .
8666
A Weekend Easter collection from 1970 (pictured left) and a collection of Tots Easter Eggs from 1977 (right) Rowntree's Milk Chocolate Cream Eggs from 1970 are made from the same ingredients as what we've come to love and know as Cadbury's Creme Eggs .
8667
Moser said that she believes her daughter hears her when she talks to her, and she believes that Giles will make a full recovery so she will be able to raise her son .
8668
Schoolgirl killer Zbigniew Huminski (pictured) did not offer a word of remorse as he was indicted for kidnapping, raping and murdering a nine-year-old .
8669
The plane scratches along the runway and the video maker describes the sound as 'one you will not forget' ‘The belly and tips of the propellers impacted the runway (the sound of the propellers hitting the surface was one sound you will not forget).
8670
Bobby Flay has filed for divorce from his wife of 10 years Stephanie March, TMZ reported on Friday; here the couple is pictured in June 2013 .
8671
She says fans love to watch her enjoying food; she might gorge on a whole chocolate cake or cover her stomach with butter, acts that can earn her around $1,500 (£1,000) a month in addition to her regular pay.
8672
7 .
6 .
6.5 .
7 .
6 .
Aaron Ramsey fires home to put Arsenal ahead despite several Burnley defenders' best efforts .
Referee: Mike Dean 6.5 .
8673
Thaddeus McCarroll, pictured in 2012, was killed outside his Jennings home on Friday night after he allegedly charged at police with a knife .
8674
Top items on which people overspend on include food (58 per cent), clothing (54 per cent), household items (28 per cent), shoes (21 per cent), and entertainment (20 per cent).
8675
England midfielders Jordan Henderson and Jack Wilshere are the surprise names on Manchester City’s summer shopping list.
8676
Swansea have been looking at bringing in another left-back since the summer with West Bromwich Albion keen to sign Neil Taylor for around £4million.
8677
Gemma the pit bull was filmed at home in California enthusiastically greeting a baby boy named Elliot with kisses.
Lovely to meet you!
Too close?
8678
The outfit was made by the Viennese tailor, Tiller, who was known to have made uniforms for the Nazis during the war.
'We don't know the origin of the uniform.
8679
Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka's adorable twins love food and have unusually refined palates for four-year-olds, including a love for seafood and spices .
8680
Astrophysics undergraduate Torin Lakeman, 19, died alongside his brother Jacques, 20, in a pub in Manchester after consuming six times the lethal dose of MDMA after ordering the drug via the web.
8681
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said Oleg Kalashnikov (pictured), a former member of the Ukrainian parliament, was found dead Wednesday evening .
8682
O’Reilly’s TV show Dapper Laughs: On The Pull was cancelled by ITV last year after more than 60,000 people signed a petition for it to be axed.
8683
So when Graves said that Pietersen — exiled for valid reasons after the last Ashes debacle before producing a nasty autobiography that only supported the ECB's decision — had to be playing county cricket to earn an England recall, it was put down to Yorkshire straight-talking.
8684
Scott Quigg (right, in action against Hidenori Othake) will fight on July 18 against an unnamed opponent .
I saw him in the gym this week and he is looking awesome.
8685
The new gingham design, presented to supporters at Anfield on Friday, is the first offering from US sports brand New Balance, who struck a record-breaking £300million four-year kit deal to replace sister company Warrior as Liverpool's suppliers.
8686
He later told Sky News: 'You've got a major strong room, there's no sign of a forced entry, they've apparently been able to abseil down the lift shaft to get access to the vault - I just find it astonishing that it was that easy.
8687
Kansai International Airport in Japan has never lost a piece of luggage since opening its doors in 1994 .
8. Munich International Airport, Germany .
8688
Imam Omar Hazim of the Islamic Center of Topeka told The Associated Press that two FBI agents brought Booker to him last year for counseling, hoping to turn the young man away from radical beliefs.
8689
West Ham striker Carlton Cole says he can't approach Sam Allardyce about a new contract - because the manager doesn't know whether he's even staying at Upton Park.
8690
Domanik Green, 14, has been accused of accessing the staff member's laptop at Paul R. Smith Middle School in Holiday, Florida, without permission by using an administrator's password to alter the image to two men kissing.
8691
As expected, Amir Khan will fight Manny Pacquiao's recent victim Chris Algieri in New York and has slammed Kell Brook for his recent comments.
8692
The study authors say that despite election pledges by the Tories and Labour (David Cameron and Ed Miliband are pictured, left to right) to improve access to GPs appointments, these promises are unlikely to be achieved within a parliamentary term .
8693
A Conservative spokesman said: 'Teaching about the fundamental British values of democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty and tolerance and respect for others is part of our promotion of British values, and is at the heart of what every school has to deliver for children.
8694
During the extensive search, police found approximately 20 kilograms of kava divided into 862 small bags and a small quantity of cannabis.
8695
In response to the note, Harley's mother Corinna wrote an open letter on Facebook, hoping it would eventually reach the person whose ignorance had so upset her daughter, and also aiming to raise awareness for non-visible 'ghost diseases' such as Harley's.
8696
At the time he converted the property, Branson had a recording studio in an old manor house a few miles away from the chapel at South Leigh in Shipton-on-Cherwell, Oxfordshire.
8697
Roxy Walsh (pictured in Bali) found the ring while snorkelling at Finns Beach Club in Bali on April 7 .
Travel blog The Bali Bible shared the post to more than 171 thousand followers.
8698
Facing charges: Andrea Bradley (left), 28, and Glen Bates (right), 32, have been indicted on aggravated murder charges in the beating death of their 2-year-old daughter last month .
8699
Department of Public Safety trooper Billy Spears posed for the photograph with Snoop at South by Southwest in Austin after the rap icon delivered his keynote speech.
8700
Despite Fellaini’s abilities, Courtois is confident of winning the Premier League title and feels Eden Hazard will double it up with the PFA Player of the Year award, even if he admits that teams have found out a way to stop Chelsea.
8701
Liverpool’s manager said: ‘Young Jordon will come back in and I've got to say he's looked absolutely sensational in training.
8702
Demonstrators-turned-vandals kick and smash the front windshield of a car outside of Camden Yards in Baltimore as peaceful protests turned violent .
8703
David Cameron will today claim that Labour's economic policies risk putting a million people out of work after Britain was singled out as one of the few 'bright spots' in the global economy.
8704
Tulsa police said 'based on the physical evidence inside the house', they believe the father killed his wife and children before using the gun on himself and are not seeking a suspect.
8705
Silva says Luis Suarez (left), Neymar (centre) and Lionel Messi are the best three players in the world .
With our individual quality we will try to suprise them.'
8706
Now Nasa has released an image taken by the probe's Visual and Infrared Spectrometer (Virs) revealing distinct features such as volcanic vents and fresh craters.
8707
Hibernian are believed to have had reservations over the 50 per cent levy before the redistribution package was passed and have now gathered backing to revisit the issue next Thursday from Motherwell – also likely to be involved in the play-offs – and city rivals Hearts.
8708
While Ms Kurtini said that she understands why people can get fed up of people oversharing their kids' lives on social media sites, she was disturbed at the letter Ms Ruthven received from her so-called friends.
8709
'How can you tell me that a manager goes and watches Man United against Tottenham, the winger gets taken off after 30 minutes, the winger from the other team absolutely rinses the full-back for England and Ashley Young doesn’t get in the squad?'
8710
Rockwell's painting is not to be confused with the equally iconic 'We Can Do It!', wartime poster, often also referred to as Rosie The Riveter.
8711
Louis' selfies have ranged from a view of his very tight boxers, to a topless sunbathing selfie where nothing but a strategically-placed cocktail glass covered up a full frontal view of his manhood .
8712
Watson, meanwhile, paid tribute to his Bath and England team-mate Ford, who scored a brilliant solo try and made a darting break that set up Hooper for a second-half touchdown that meant the visitors were always in sight of their opponents on the scoreboard.
8713
They can be ordered with a matching diamond encrusted solid gold link bracelet strap, or a more exotic skin including crocodile and python skins.
8714
Mr Farage has vowed he would stand down as leader if he fails to win the parliamentary seat he is contesting in Thanet South.
8715
The girl who found a baby's body floating in a village pond in 1988 says she can no longer be 'blamed' for dumping the boy, after his mother was arrested over the child's death 27 years later.
8716
Real Sociedad are still hopeful of singing Burnley striker Danny Ings when his contract expires in the summer .
8717
Hundreds of staff at the Royal Courts of Justice and London School of Economics were evacuated again today after a building due to be demolished collapsed 'like a pancake' injuring a 56-year-old workman.
8718
It then successfully jumps up onto the ball with two feet and balances for a moment before its momentum causes the ball to roll away - as if it had given it a kick.
8719
Moments later, he crashed into cyclist Alan Knight, 64, who was crossing the road while on his morning paper round, then drove away at high speed.
8720
The warrant also said the off-duty officer  told responding police he could confirm Jones' identity because 'I watch UFC all the time, I know what Jon Jones looks like.'
8721
The scream factor of rides at a Cornwall fun park are being measured over the Easter holiday period to see if the noise will impact the residents of a new 480-home development nearby.
8722
Everton manager Roberto Martinez sees a fearlessness in Burnley similar to that displayed by his Wigan team in surviving against the odds in the Premier League.
8723
Accompanying the letter from Benaud, dated September 27, 1996, was a full sheet of notes about spin bowling for left-hand bowlers.
8724
Vonda Thedford, 55, told Fox News that she was driving along a Pittsburg County rural road earlier this month when she spotted the mysterious carcass lying on the ground.
8725
If the Borussia Dortmund players had been shocked by Wednesday's news that manager Jurgen Klopp will quit the club at the end of the season, they showed no sign that it had affected them on Saturday.
8726
Scroll down for video .
In 13 career postseason games at TD Garden, James is averaging about 29 points, nine rebounds, and six assists.
8727
On Saturday a 29-year-old man was admitted to Bundaberg Hospital (pictured) suffering from fractures, head injuries and burns .
8728
After that crushing 5-0 aggregate defeat by Real Madrid in the semi-finals a year ago, and the shock of suffering a 3-1 first-leg loss to Porto in this season’s quarters, expect the real Bayern to stand up and deliver another Champions League triumph for Guardiola.
8729
Tristram Hunt, the shadow education secretary, was visiting the primary school in Derby where he was filmed asking the year six pupil who he would vote for in next month's election if he could.
8730
The bull shark took a bite out of his back, torso and head, according to witnesses in Palm Beach, Florida.
Horrific:
8731
With a look of pure concentration she continues to spin, lifting her arms to the traditional folk music.
Mongolian dances are closely connected with song or story.
8732
Instead, she tries anything from dancing, to Pilates, to walking in the hills or gardening.
Instead, she tries anything from dancing, to Pilates, to walking in the hills or gardening .
8733
Veteran ESPN reporter Shelley Smith (above) is set to return to work six months after announcing she had breast cancer .
I’m excited to get back to work.'
8734
Crystal O'Connor, owner of Memories Pizza in Walkerton, said that she stands by her statement, and that she does not hate gay people - she just does not support gay marriage.
8735
Dazzling: French artist Vincent Lamouroux has painted a derelict motel in LA's trendy Silver Lake neighborhood completely white, even coating the palm trees .
8736
Every woman surveyed in Paris claimed to have been a victim of some kind of sexual harassment on the city’s public transport.
8737
Watching the video later, he said he looked like the man in Munch’s The Scream.
On day two, he went into a burger joint and, noticing a sign on the soft drinks machine saying ‘Free refill’
8738
Outspoken British comedian Russell Brand has appealed to this fans to sign up to the mercy campaign to save condemned Bali Nine duo from facing death row.
8739
Dr Permesh Dhillon, a medical internist at Pilgrim Hospital in Boston, said the heat from the lightning bolt is thought to have burned a hole in the woman's retina.
8740
Rachel Chepulis, 26, was arrested with Wesley E. Brown III in North Bend, Oregon almost three weeks after she helped him break out of Lake Region Correctional Center, also known as Devils Lake, in North Dakota.
8741
Pretty Agnese Klavina, 30, vanished after being driven away from celebrity Puerto Banus haunt Aqwa Mist on September 6 last year.
Multi
Missing:
8742
A prisoner who helped stab a man in a random attack has been posting photographs of himself posing in his cell on Facebook - just a day after another inmate was filmed partying in jail.
8743
A thug is caught on camera kicking the wing mirror off  a vehicle at La Marina Auto Sales in Dearborn Heights, Michigan .
8744
Harlequins have announced that fly-half Tim Swiel will return to the club next season on a full-time contract.
Tim Swiel will return to H .
8745
It's good to be Taylor Swift — and for 21-year-old Elizabeth Scarborough, it's good to look like Taylor Swift, too, particularly as the University of South Carolina student has been built a career on impersonating the superstar singer.
8746
Rhiannon, a popular social media personality with almost 200,000 Instagram followers, told Daily Mail Australia that she has been enjoying her post-op holiday time, 'chilling out' by the pool, getting mani pedis, and going shopping.
8747
Tayler Chaice Buzbee has spoken of her humiliation after a dental assistant apparently removed her baby son, Attley (pictured with Tayler) from her arms while she was breastfeeding him in the dentist's chair .
8748
Millions of motorists face spiralling parking fines after judges ruled yesterday that £85 was not an 'excessively high' penalty for staying too long in a car park.
8749
But it wasn't all smiles at yesterday's race after a serious feud was sparked between Hamilton and his teammate Nico Rosberg, following a press conference.
8750
Carter, a high school senior who's on the honor role, has been charged as a youthful offender, which means her case is open and she could face punishment as an adult if convicted .
8751
The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival and Lollapalooza, in Illinois and California, are the latest in a string of concert venues and historic landmarks to ban selfie sticks on their grounds (file picture)
8752
Family friend Jess Hurley posted the images of the brothers hooked to life support machines on her Facebook page earlier this month, asking people to pray for their family (pictured) 'People smoke it because it doesn't show up in drug tests.
8753
For the most recent episode in the Vice series, Gianna went undercover to meet with one surrogacy agent who claimed over dinner that she could get her a Caucasian baby in two to three months - confirming that there were in fact ‘extra’ babies being sold on the black market.
8754
Caught:
CCTV images show Iveson, 24, taking a 12in knife into the Thorougoods shop in Clitheroe, Lancashire and threatening Mrs Brown, 54.
8755
Arsenal's in-form midfielder Francis Coquelin (left) attempts to dispossess England forward Danny Welbeck during training on Friday .
8756
I don’t like building players up before they have played Test cricket and then quickly passing judgment on them when they are given their chance but Wood seems to have that different trajectory which should suit overseas pitches.
8757
Many have had to run away in fear as their homes and villages were attacked by Boko Haram militants, causing a large number of children to be separated from their parents amidst the violent chaos.
8758
The concept of a homestay holiday is that rather than renting an empty house or apartment, you stay at a reasonable cost in the home of your hosts.
More information: www.homestay.com .
8759
The business's owner Kunaratnam Kunanatha admitted two health and safety charges including a failure to maintain the electrical installation to prevent danger .
8760
But Aidan Turner's Poldark co-star Heida Reed has claimed the obsession with his body is sexist, and is unintentionally undermining the BBC1 series.
8761
Figures from the Catholic Church show the number of women becoming nuns in Britain has trebled from 15 in 2009 to 45 last year.
8762
In an Easter message to Christians, the Prime Minister insisted the coalition had spent five years 'trying to lift people up' by making work pay and encouraging responsibility .
8763
A raid of the gang's 'stash house' in Brent, north west London, unearthed cash, drugs, counterfeit identity documents and drug dealing equipment such as scales.
8764
Djimi Traore, Antonio Nunez, Milan Baros and Igor Biscan - cult hero that he was - were all part of that unfathomably successful squad.
8765
David Totton, 36, admitted driving a rented white Peugeot RCZ into the doors of Club Liv in Manchester (pictured) after bouncers refused to let his friend come inside .
8766
Among the more unlikely pairings is Hunger Games star Josh Hutcherson, 22, who stunned film fans when he stepped out at a première in Spain this week bearing a striking resemblance to James Alexandrou, 30, an actor best known for his role as Martin Fowler in Eastenders.
8767
The story has attracted a lot of attention on social media, with some condemning Mr Yuan's actions and others expressing admiration.
8768
The typed dispatch – owned by a US collector – was sent by German president Karl Doenitz on May 8, 1945, telling officers to abandon fighting or face the Allies' wrath.
The surrender order that is being auctioned by Bonhams, New York .
The order was seized from Luftwaffe chief Robert von Greim when he was arrested that day .
8769
‘To retire as Glasgow captain is good enough but if I could go out as the Glasgow captain who wins the Pro12 for the first time in our history would be fairy-tale stuff,’ said Kellock, who played his 150th game as skipper in the 34-34 draw at Leinster last Friday.
8770
Shocked witnesses said after the attack, which took place at Fishery Bay, South Australia, the six-metre shark was seen swimming away with the surfer's leg in its mouth .
8771
Diet Pepsi, Caffeine-Free Diet Pepsi and Wild Cherry Diet Pepsi will now contain sucralose, another artificial sweetener commonly known as Splenda.
8772
It would be less common in more mature stars, like our sun.
This animation shows how the constellation Leo changed from 50,000BC to what it will look like in 100,000CE .
8773
The operation usually costs the NHS between £800 and £900 per eye, but some trusts are charging up to £2,700.
Several trusts actively encourage patients to ‘self-fund’.
8774
Ten friends, including the dead men, had rented a house on Caspar Cove 160 miles north of San Francisco to hunt for abalone, a rare and expensive mollusk that is prized as a delicacy.
8775
Shown is the 'Divje Babe flute' bear bone, believed to be the oldest musical instrument discovered in Europe, in the National Museum in Ljubljana .
8776
General manager Andy Walsh outside the new ground, which cost the democratic club a whopping £6.5m .
'That's a daft question,' says general manager Andy Walsh.
8777
The red Dodge Durango can be seen hurtling at 60 mph towards the school bus on an Oklahoma highway at 8.20am as 36 7th grade students are being driven to school .
8778
A young waitress has claimed that England footballer Aaron Lennon grabbed her, slapped her and ripped her top as he partied in the VIP suite of a nightclub.
8779
Kathie Lee Gifford said on Today on Monday that she hadn't seen Bruce's bombshell news coming and neither had her close friend Kris, saying that the momager was struggling to cope with the revelations .
Visit site .
8780
Dr Brandt (left) took his own life on April 5 and was said to be devastated over a caricature of him, Dr. Franff (right), on Fey's show Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt .
8781
Just minutes after 8pm UK time (12 noon in Las Vegas), tickets for the richest bout in history began appearing on the secondary market with one ticket going for a cool $128,705 (£85,508) on StubHub.
8782
The determined pair have now shed a combined weight of 29 stone after Tony lost an amazing 21 stone and Debbie dropped 8 stone.
'He knows I'd kill him.'
8783
The video maker selects an afro hairstyle and then stacks a third cup, which has outfits drawn on it .
8784
This means that the first egg is added to the second oocyte, which then travels down the oviduct and is covered in a shell, creating a giant egg around the first one.
8785
Independent investigators were called into Royal Oldham after the deaths of four babies and two mothers, and North Manchester General after the deaths of another three babies and one mother.
8786
The suspect had wounds on his face and neck and a vacuum could be heard during the search when police discovered the victim's head, according to the Boston Globe.
8787
Launched in October 2020, AIM will travel to a binary asteroid system – the paired Didymos asteroids, which will come a comparatively close 11 million km to Earth in 2022.
8788
'Every time your number comes up, in pretend your condom failed and you get a paper baby.'
@alicedreger: "On average 1 out of 6 times there is a mishap with a condom."
8789
The goals may have dried up at club level for Graziano Pelle but the Southampton striker repaid Italy coach Antonio Conte's faith by scoring against England.
8790
The doors are open.'
River Plate vice president Matias Patanian admits the club 'dream of Falcao' and that 'the doors are open'
8791
An investigation later revealed that the unidentified teen had sex with both his current English teacher at the time, Dufresne, and his English teacher from the prior year, 24-year-old Rachel Respess - including an alleged a threesome with both at Respess's house.
8792
I then headed up to Sri Panwa’s Cool Spa, where you can practise yoga on a breathtaking platform called Baba Nest, which offers 360 degree views of Cape Panwa.
8793
The hospital also respected Pham's privacy and acted only with her consent, the statement said.
The hospital says it respected Pham's privacy and only acted with her consent .
8794
AP McCoy claimed victory in the Aintree Hurdles as he rode Jezki (right) to victory after Ruby Walsh, riding Arctic Fire (left, downed), fell at the final hurdle at this year's Grand National Festival on Thursday afternoon .
8795
The Labour parliamentary candidate apologised 'wholeheartedly' for telling people to throw 'Tippex' over cars displaying England flags (file picture)
8796
The cub is clearly distressed however and spits at the wildlife expert’s incoming hand before making a lunge at it with its mouth open.
8797
It was on New Year's Day last year that Juan Mata finally cracked after being substituted by Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho at Southampton.
8798
A pensioner who went into hospital and came home to find her possessions had been cleared out has criticised her son who she says 'didn't think I was going to make it'.
8799
'Plus-size fashion is evolving and becoming more stylish, and it's great as my collection is all about embracing your curves and feeling confident,' Gemma tells us.
8800
Pale skin icons include the likes of Keira Knightley, pictured (above) at the 87th annual Academy Awards, Cara Delevingne and Gwyneth Paltrow .
8801
More than £1.5billion worth of unwanted online shopping items including women's dresses, shoes and underwear are piling up in wardrobes, according to new research.
8802
Former NSA chief General Keith Alexander has warned that the U.S. and her allies are at an ever growing risk of a systemic cyber-assault, with energy infrastructure likely to be hacker's prime target .
8803
Ennis-Hill provided one of London 2012's most captivating storylines by surging to heptathlon gold, and the Sheffield-born star will return to the Olympic Stadium three years on to compete in the Sainsbury's Anniversary Games.
8804
Rogan was rushing his wife to hospital for the birth of the eighth child, with all seven other children in the vehicle, when a deer hit by another car flew through their windshield .
8805
Storey was a judge for Weber County Justice Court from 1984 until 2010, when a new Ogden Justice Court (pictured) opened and took over the county's caseload .
8806
It was like that when the rest of the jockeys who have trailed in his wake for so long formed an honour guard as he walked into the parade ring to be presented with the Champion Jockey Trophy for the 20th consecutive time, by Ian Wright, one of McCoy’s Arsenal heroes.
8807
You need to eat just ten almonds to get your daily requirement of calcium (700mg), important for healthy bones.
A good source of iron.
Walnuts .
8808
Tanguy Pepiot, a runner for the University of Oregon, is pictured left celebrating his victory - and right after he has lost it all to the University of Washington's Meron Simon .
8809
World No 1 Lydia Ko shot her second consecutive over-par score when she could only manage a two-over-par 74, which included three bogeys and a birdie.
8810
Jordon Ibe's proved he's got some impressive moves on the football pitch but the young winger has shown us he's an equally adept dancer - by pulling off the trademark Michael Jackson 'moonwalk.'
8811
Tebow's last regular-season NFL game appearance was in December 2012 with the New York Jets, from which he was released in 2013 having thrown only eight passes and run just 32 times in his lone season on the team.
8812
Despite an offer by the prime minister to hold a state funeral, the cricketing legend loved by millions wished for a small private farewell which his wife Daphne (pictured with Benaud in 2005) respected with a quiet, dignified ceremony attended only by immediate family .
8813
Leo Greene, 39, of Salt Lake City was asked to hand over the keys to his car by police when he drove off, crashed through the fence lines and onto the tarmac area before crashing into another fence.
8814
Witnesses to the abduction said four people wrapped the pup in a blanket and left in a car around 3:20 a.m. from Dockweiler State Beach, just west of the city's international airport, said Los Angeles Police Officer Rosario Herrera.
8815
McCarthy (left) said he thought Barkley was 'different class' despite a mistake with an ambitious pass .
So far, so good, but we won't get carried away.
8816
Julia (second from left), Danielle (center) and Alexa (right), pictured with their mother Ellen (left) and father Alan Brody (second from right),  say when they Google their mother's name, they see that commenters have been criticizing their mother .
8817
Of that starting line-up only De Gea hasn't played UEFA football this season, eight of them are still in the Champions League quarter-finals while two of the substitutes, Nacho and Dani Carvajal have decent minutes in the competition.
8818
Sergeant Greg Paul said the search was focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland .
Sergeant Greg Paul said the search was focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
8819
Videos of the South Korean defender Kim Min Hyeok, who plays for Sagan Tosu, have gone viral after he allegedly brutally stamped on the face of opponent Mu Kanazaki.
8820
Wayne Rooney smashes home during Manchester United's 3-1 win over Aston Villa on Saturday .
The process shall take more than one year, it shall take three years.'
8821
Rossen (pictured here) later uploaded the 12-second clip of the pro-active employee to social media along with the caption: 'Hardest working man at LaGuardia... from my window'
8822
In the angry and emotional package delivered to the Las Vegas Review-Journal on Monday, John Noble, 53, said he was going to kill himself because he lost his lifetime free pass to the M Resort's buffet for harassing female employees in 2013.
8823
Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander pictured drinking with call girl Brooke Magnanti .
He added: 'Flat-footed and lame, we already look as if we're running to catch up.'
8824
Conor McGregor is gearing up for a featherweight title challenge against Jose Aldo on July 11 and has unveiled a fearsome new tattoo ahead of the encounter.
8825
Sir Nick Faldo and Tom Watson will make their final Open appearances in front of the largest arena in the championship's 155-year history at St Andrews in July.
8826
As 'Tri-service Safety Officer', he does not have the power to make arrests and will mostly be patrolling his beat and spreading safety messages while on hand to respond to most 999 calls.
8827
In the footage, a woman thought to be the former lead guitarist is seen leading the female militia as they march single-file along a dusty road, waving their AK-47s in the air .
8828
Gertrude Weaver, a 116-year-old Arkansas woman who was the oldest documented person for a total of six days, died on Monday.
'She really likes that.'
8829
The popular Skala beach is just at the end of the bay.
The popular golden Skala beach is just at the end of the bay with the nearby Metaxa Beach Bar good for coffee .
8830
Stuart McCall has dismissed any thought of his Rangers future being decided before the end of the season as he stressed his Ibrox revival had yet to achieve anything.
8831
Beautician Chernae Noonan, who founded eyebrow shaping business The Brow Bar, has blocked the cosmetic giant's application to trademark the phrase.
8832
Despite United’s impressive run of form which has seen them pick up 25 points from their last 10 games – Scholes says they are still some way off challenging for the title and putting a good run a form together towards the end of the season is not what makes a great team.
8833
The pups were apparently discovered in a discarded shoe box on Tuesday afternoon and taken to the Humane Society for immediate treatment.
8834
Passengers escaped injury after two Ryanair planes clipped wings while taxiing to a runway at Dublin Airport .
8835
Sterling trains ahead of the weekend's game with Arsenal .
Liverpool fans have a popular mantra: no player is bigger than the club.
8836
In contrast, and on the upside, team-mate Fernando Alonso managed to get a McLaren into Q2 for the first time this season and will start 14th.
8837
Crossland was arrested and gave four no comment interviews.
Crossland’s parents, Susan and Michael, hit the headlines after winning £1.2 million on the lottery in 2008.
8838
'That's not going to happen': Baltimore police commissioner Anthony Batts ruled out his resignation despite that fact that his deputy admitted they should have sought medical attention for Freddie Gray .
8839
Removing the vermouth from this mix makes this drink bone dry; possibly one of the most alcoholic drinks you can get as it's made with 100 per cent alcohol.
8840
Former Chelsea defender Paulo Ferreira expects his compatriot Jose Mourinho to remain in charge at Stamford Bridge for 'a long, long time'.
8841
Representative Darrell Issa (left) asked the State Department about the use of personal email for official business in December 2012, but didn't receive any answer until Clinton (right) had left the department .
8842
Sergeant Greg Paul says the search is focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
Sergeant Greg Paul said the search was focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
8843
As if the news that Tiger Woods will be back at the Masters next week was not encouraging enough for American golf, the sight of a resurgent Phil Mickelson at the Shell Houston Open provided added lustre.
8844
They are among a £300,000 archive compiled by Captain Robert Lewis, co-pilot of the Enola Gay B29 bomber, which also includes his flight logs and report of the bombing raid.
8845
Dashcam footage released on Thursday shows Walter Scott running away from his car minutes before he is shot dead by Officer Michael Sager.
8846
Scott Stephenson shouted and swore outside court after he was bailed ahead of his sentencing for a theft in which he stole a phone from a man dying of hypothermia .
8847
Uber has since wiped the bill and offered to pay her the original $15 refund but Ms Hessel said she now feels she can't trust them with her new card details.
8848
At first, Casey thought that Shelby Wilkie had run from her husband, but Michael Wilkie was then arrested, charged and found guilty of his wife's murder.
8849
Police cordon off the area in South Shields around the Herbs n Spice takeaway where a man, named locally as Tipu Sultan, died from gunshot wounds .
8850
A deleted tweet by Musk says that the rocket appeared to be suffering from 'stiction in the biprop throttle valve, resulting in control system phase lag.' This means the valve controlling the flow propellent and oxidiser to the engine wasn't moving fast enough .
8851
PSG will come up against an 'unstoppable' player when Lionel Messi visits the Parc des Princes for Wednesday's Champions League quarter-final, according to manager Laurent Blanc.
8852
Despite widespread speculation about a pending deal with former Mainz coach Thomas Tuchel, Hamburg said they had agreed on a 15-month contract with Labbadia, who had coached them in 2009-10.
8853
Spectacular:
A pair of Hellenistic gold hoop earrings, which are thought to be around 2,400 years old, are expected to fetch £2,000.
Turbulent:
8854
Studies have found that a phone is most efficient when it's between 0° and 35°C (32°F to 95°F), and keeping it as near room temperature as possible (22° C or 72°F ) is ideal.
8855
Gunners goalkeeper Deyan Iliev was sent off inside 15 minutes after he scythed down Boro's Harry Chapman in the box, having failed to clear George Dobson's back pass.
8856
Former Another Level star Dane Bowers, 35, (pictured left) is accused of hitting his ex-fiancee, 31-year-old glamour model Sophie Cahill (right) in front of her young son in February, causing a bloody nose .
8857
Swansea manager Garry Monk is out to claim a season-first against Hull on Saturday - pick up some points after an international break.
8858
They lost everything,' Dixon told Channel 2.
Dixon has since started a GoFundMe page which on Sunday had raised $4,619 in donations.
8859
Traffic Scotland tweeted a bizarre warning that there may be hold-ups ‘due to a dog taking control of tractor’, adding: ‘Nope, not joking.’
8860
Edward Fride (pictured), the pastor at Christ the King church in Ann Arbor, has told parishioners to carry guns.
If we are not in Mayberry, is there a real threat?’
8861
The price represents almost a 40 per cent increase on the previous high of $64.95 (£43.83) for Mayweather's fight against Canelo Alvarez in September 2013.
8862
Ashley Young celebrates his equaliser before claiming United fans were the loudest he's ever heard them .
We felt we could make them pay for that and we did.
8863
Amelia Morton, 23, from Birmingham, who weighed 12-and-a-half stone, was shocked into a post-graduation diet  after being told by her father: 'Boys don't fancy fat girls'.
8864
Richard Graham, who is fighting to retain the marginal seat of Gloucester, faces contempt of court proceedings if he fails to obey an order by the High Court to take down Twitter posts a court case .
8865
Education Secretary Nicky Morgan revealed she has ordered officials to start 'mapping the pressures' on the state schools system caused by immigration .
8866
'During the past 50 years, some 250 million visitors have enjoyed Benidorm.
Benidorm officials said the mass-market resort was applying in order to reinvent its own image.
8867
Beyond the affront on her looks, credibility and the content, Laing made sure to clear up one thing  - she was hired for passion, not because she 'scrubs up alright.'
8868
Satellite TV operator DirecTV is ending its advertising campaign featuring 80s heartthrob Rob Lowe after complaints by rival Comcast that their claims couldn't be substantiated .
8869
Nine months after Smith received a one-week suspension for claiming women can play a role in provoking men into violence, Smith tried to claim that boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr's career should be looked at separate from his domestic violence history.
 Pacquiao's trainer has taken a 'good vs evil' approach to the fight, claiming Pacquiao represents good and Mayweather represents evil .
8870
DNAInfo reported that New York's 311 helpline, for non-emergency complaints to city authorities, recorded a total of 133 complaints about loud sex between January 1 2014 and February 12 2015.
8871
Elsa Hosk, Candice Swanepoel and Jasmine Tookes are the stars of Victoria's Secret's latest lingerie campaign to promote the brand's Dream Angels range .
Visit site .
8872
Manager Sir Alf Ramsey promoted Phillips from his role as Under-23 team doctor just before the '66 World Cup as seniors doctor Alan Bass had run out of holiday and could not join up with the squad for their preparation camp in Lilleshall.
8873
Adam Johnson leaves Peterlee police station after being charged with three offences of sexual activity .
Johnson will now appear at Peterlee Magistrates Court on May 20 .
8874
A woman who won $1million off a scratch-off lottery ticket given to her in a birthday card from a friend plans to share her earnings with her friend's family.
8875
Immigrants from Jamaica and Haiti make up approximately a third of the foreign-born black population, while immigrants from Ethiopia, Nigeria and Ghana make up about 15 per cent of the population, according to the Pew Center.
8876
Miss Flanders, 46, accused the media of ‘raking over’ Mr Miliband’s past in the run-up to the election.
But we just went down a conversation cul-de-sac.
8877
Rough arrest:
Speaking out: Good said her lawyer decided to represent her free of charge because he feels her arrest was a 'travesty of justice'
8878
Caught off guard, Nathan's family offered the club £2m to release him from the contract and allow them to negotiate with European clubs who had shown an interest.
8879
‘I’ve stopped him seeing the kids because he hasn’t paid for them, and he keeps threatening me.’ ‘He said he caught chlamydia from the car – from the exhaust pipe of the car.’
8880
A Facebook post and a Craigslist ad worked together to solve the 34-year-old case murder of a teenage girl from Michigan who was found stabbed nine times in the woods in rural Louisiana.
New attention to the case has brought forward a potential suspect, as well.
All the new attention has also brought forward a potential suspect in Carol's murder.
8881
Many mothers and fathers use their child's favourite toy or book as a way to guarantee good behaviour in the future (picture posed by model)
8882
But a programme which offered screening to all expectant women at Northwick Park NHS hospital in North-West London resulted in not a single case of the bacteria spreading to infants among those who were tested and subsequently treated with antibiotics.
8883
QPR manager Chris Ramsey is convinced he is the right man to bring long-term success to Loftus Road - whether Rangers are relegated or not.
8884
That is how Andy Murray may be feeling  as he looks to face Novak Djokovic in the final of the Miami Open.
Murray is set to marry his fiancee in Dunblane next Saturday .
8885
The researchers found that almost 40 per cent of Muslims agreed that the security services were partly responsible for radicalising young Jihadis, compared with 16 per cent of non-Muslims.
8886
In-form winger Aaron Murphy scored twice in a seven-try romp as Huddersfield secured a 38-14 Super League victory against Catalans Dragons to end a three-match losing run.
8887
The brush fire that broke out on Saturday evening, April 18, 2015 is seen here as it burns in the Dam Prado Dam Flood Control Basin north of the city of Corona, California.
8888
Ms Wilson said while she now accepts she is an 'anxious person', when she was younger she watched everybody else coping and felt like she had 'missed out on a guide book to life'
8889
Mary Todd Lowrance, 49, a teacher at Moises E Molina High School, turned herself into Dallas Independent School District police on Thursday morning, according to Dallas ISD Police Chief Craig Miller.
8890
Jenna Louise Driscoll, 25, was due to face Brisbane Magistrates Court on Monday on seven charges of supplying or trafficking drugs, one charge of unlawful wounding and three charges of bestiality with her dog.
8891
In a statement to police, the alleged victim said: 'I told him nothing was going to happen, but he started to kiss me and I could tell he was naked.
8892
Theo Walcott understands just how difficult it is now to hold down a place in the Arsenal side, who he says have been the 'best team in Europe' this year and could lift the title next season if everyone stays fit.
8893
Incumbent Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel celebrated Tuesday night a hard-fought victory in a tense run-off race against challenger Jesus 'Chuy' Garcia.
8894
Lord Greville Janner - the Labour peer accused of molesting young boys in the 1970s and 1980s - could be tested by experts to prove he has dementia as part of civil claims brought by his alleged victims, a lawyer has said.
8895
Sam Allardyce's current contract expires at the end of the season, and it has been suggested West Ham's owners might go in a different direction ahead of the club's move to the Olympic Stadium at the start of the 2016-17 campaign.
8896
After a hesitant moment, the pair embraced and held each other for a few moments before composing themselves.
'It was chilling when she described those moments.'
8897
Miss Bevan’s boyfriend Pascal Malbrouck (left) and her mother Rachel Fortune (right) at a police press conference in December 2014 appealing for Miss Bevan and her baby to return after they disappeared .
8898
Air Force to bare force: Manhart was once a Staff Sergeant at the San Antonio Air Force training camp (right), but was demoted when she appeared nude in Playboy magazine.
8899
Nicola Martin, PDSA Head of Pet Health and Welfare, said: 'Sadly, many of our 1.3 million pet rabbit population in the UK are 'unhappy bunnies', as many of their welfare needs are being neglected.
8900
Facing a caution for theft: Miss Craven was asked by British Transport Police to go for questioning at their offices at Hull Paragon (above), where she was given a solicitor, paid for by legal aid .
8901
West Indies' Shivnarine Chanderpaul may be slow and boring but he is still going strong at 40 .
I think.
Are you thinking what I am thinking?
8902
Often around explosions: Craig - who's often seen standing dangerously close to explosions as the dapper, martini-drinking agent 007 - will spend the next three years raising awareness for the U.N. Mine Action Service and political and financial support for the cause .
8903
Blackburn striker Rudy Gestede has put Premier League clubs on alert after revealing his desire to play in England's top flight.
That's my ambition.
8904
She killed ex-boyfriend Travis Alexander in what prosecutors said was a jealous rage because he wanted to break off their relationship.
Victim:
8905
Cullum stood trial alongside Reid Daniel (left), 24, and Matthew Bouzemada (right), 22, who were both jailed for three years after they were convicted of assisting getaway driver Warren .
8906
According to the girl's mother school officials refused to remove the boy from her daughter's class, and she says she has now had to move the girl to a new school (posed by model)
8907
Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood leader Badie (front) and his fellow defendants were found guilty of plotting unrest in the months after the military overthrew Islamist president Mohamed Morsi in July 2013 .
8908
Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Sunderland are unbeaten in their last six Premier League games against Newcastle United (W4 D2), winning the last four.
8909
Stewart said he didn't have many regrets from his time hosting the Comedy Central show, but one was not pushing Donald Rumsfeld harder when he had the chance in 2011 .
8910
President Francois Hollande has vowed to 'show no mercy' if French peacekeepers in Central African Republic are found guilty of raping hungry children in exchange for food .
8911
The planned engineering works over the Easter weekend will hit all routes to and from London Euston – hitting the busy west coast services between the capital and Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool.
8912
Nearly half of parents have not taught their children how to dial 999 - and many youngsters think the emergency number is 911, a study found.
8913
Leaked documents reveal Tory election chiefs have given their candidates a letter-writing kit to target farmers, pensioners, women and other target voters - as well as advice on how to respond to questions about certain subjects .
8914
Hull midfielder David Meyler says he is totally convinced the Tigers will hang on to their Premier League status.
Hull are currently just three points above Burnley .
8915
Former animal shelter worker Catherine Lynn Smith, 50 (pictured), was arrested Tuesday after the bodies of 10 cats and three dogs were found decaying in her home, which had been auctioned off .
8916
Aaron Hernandez was taken to the MCI Cedar Juntion prison in Walpole, Massachusetts on Wednesday after he was sentenced to life in prison without parole for the 2013 murder of Odin Lloyd.
8917
Lieutenant Darryl Lawson said the shootings took place after the man broke into the rear of the house armed with a gun and a knife.
Double shooting:
8918
Sangakkara bid farewell to the one-day game on March 18, disappointed with a World Cup quarter-final defeat and saying that he was happy Sri Lanka were in a better place than when he came into the side in 2000.
8919
Samantha Rawcliffe, 40, from Morecambe, has been diagnosed with the rare condition functional neurological disorder - an umbrella term to cover a range of neurological symptoms .
8920
Finally, Dr Watkins says women should include their 'little people' in the things they love because hobbies and passions are created in childhood.
8921
Khloe Kardashian has hit back at critics of her Instagram post reaction to Monday night's riots in Baltimore saying she is 'Damned if I do.
8922
Undersheriff Tim Albin (pictured), of the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office in Oklahoma, quit his job Monday after new revelations about how the department treated elderly killer, reserve deputy Robert Bates .
8923
After his move north, his first pro contract at Liverpool was worth £2,000 per week and his current deal earns him £35,000 per week as previously mentioned.
8924
Exeter then added further tries through Thomas Waldrom, Byron McGuigan, Sam Hill and Dean Mumm after the break, with outclassed Newcastle only able to respond with a 68th-minute effort from Chris Harris and eight points from the boot of Tom Catterick.
8925
Fresh questions were raised about the award of the 99-year lease to West Ham on Tuesday, when it was suggested the deal may contravene European state aid law.
8926
Low-key: In spite of high profile friendships with the likes of James Corden, Andy Murray and bride-to-be, Kim Sears (pictured here when Murray received his OBE in 2013) haven't invited many big names to attend their wedding in Dumblane this weekend .
Buy now .
8927
Leicester City defender Marcin Wasilewsk (left) hassles Swansea playmaker Gylfi Sigurdsson (right) for the ball at the King Power Stadium .
8928
The fight broke out on the Oman Air flight 102 to Muscat after one man decided to move seats because the plane wasn't full.
8929
Kyhesha-Lee's body was found days after she suffered the blows - allegedly in squalid surroundings - at the unit she shared with her father in Petrie, north of Brisbane, on March 30, 2013.
8930
Lisa McElroy, 50, who teaches legal writing at Drexel University, reportedly sent the inappropriate message on March 31 baring the subject line: 'Great article on writing briefs'
8931
Wladimir Klitschko  goes up against Bryant Jennings in New York on Saturday night .
Former heavyweight champions Evander Holyfield (left) and Lennox Lewis attend the official weigh-in .
8932
The fastest and the most powerful men in the world met in Jamaica this week, as US President Barack Obama visited Jamaica and posed with Usain Bolt.
8933
And now it has emerged Mrs Saunders' law career got off to a flying start when she secured her pupillage – a barrister’s training contract at 1 Garden Court Chambers in London in 1983.
8934
The work of photographer Ian Lawson, many of the photos feature Herdwick sheep, a breed native to Cumbria and whose name comes from the Old Norse herdvyck - sheep pasture.
8935
Horry County Police said the mother of an abandoned baby girl turned herself in on Thursday night (above a picture released by police of the woman suspected to be in connection to the incident)
8936
Scooter's said that the images which appeared on their Facebook page were similar to the images that were posted on Crayola's page when they were hacked in January (pictured)
8937
One neighbor said police had been to the couple's home a few times in recent years, a claim Elmwood Park Police Chief Michael Foligno confirmed .
8938
Leah Rogers and Ryan Flanaghan (pictured together left) picked up a rare purple Beanie Baby for £10 at a car boot sale in Bude, Cornwall - and later found out it was worth £62,500 .
8939
Liris says she wants to change the industry by inspiring women to follow their dreams, helping to represent a different body type other than straight size in mainstream fashion .
8940
It’s just not right.'
'I’m actively showing them what it would look like if that became law and how completely ridiculous it is,' says Carnes .
8941
'The critics claim that the samples we obtained must have come from Earth, that it that there must be a mechanism which can lift these particles from Earth to the stratosphere,' Dr Wainwright told Dailymail.com.
8942
A disgraced Pennsylvania math teacher has been sentenced to 30 days in jail, house arrest and probation for having sex with a 17-year-old student and sending him X-rated photos.
8943
With a 45,000sq ft spa, 21 treatment rooms, a two Michelin-star restaurant and eight swimming pools, it's no wonder celebrities flock to the award-winning Pennyhill Park.
8944
The U.S. Navy and Coast Guard and Royal Canadian Navy ships have seized more than 28 tons of cocaine valued at $848 million in the eastern Pacific region near Central and South America in the last six months, resulting in 101 arrests.
8945
The incident occurred in the busy Fisherman's Wharf area of San Francisco when the cyclist rode up to the vehicle, yelled at the driver, banged on his window and pushed in his mirror, police spokesman Carlos Manfredi told AFP.
8946
On Saturday, at the 161st Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race, the women’s crews will battle the same Thames course as the men, who will follow an hour later.
8947
Liverpool and Newcastle players took part in a minute silence before their Premier League match at Anfield on Monday night in memory of the 96 fans who died at Hillsborough almost 26 years ago.
8948
McKinnon was driving east along Lake Pickett Road at dawn on May 18, 2013, when she lost control of her 2008 Mitsubishi Eclipse while trying to navigate a curve in the road .
8949
‘Ed Miliband knows as well as I know that if there is an anti-Tory majority after the election, then the only way David Cameron gets back into Downing Street is if Ed Miliband is prepared to stand back and let him back in Downing Street,’ Miss Sturgeon told Sky News.
8950
The 200-year-old skeleton of a soldier killed at the battle of Waterloo has been discovered under a car park - just like Richard III - and identified by archaeologists.
8951
Writing in the guest book of Cromlix House Hotel – a property Murray purchased in 2013 for £1.8million and where his brother got married – the happy couple thanked staff for their hard work around the top-secret event and signed as ‘Andy & Kimberly Murray’.
8952
Striker Jay Hart, 24, could be heard laughing on the mobile phone footage as he was caught romping with the mystery blonde in his club T-shirt with his tracksuit bottoms around his legs.
8953
Holder told police that Hardy choked her, slammed her against a bathtub, threw her to the floor and threatened to kill her after a fight at his Charlotte condo.
8954
Wendy L. Patrick PhD says we fell for Belle Gibson because 'we love heartwarming stories—especially comeback stories' Born to Bond - There is a Bit of Belle in All of Us .
8955
Philippines army photograph showing construction at Gaven Reef in the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea  on February 19 .
Force:
8956
The Sea Peoples, shown here fighting ancient Egyptian forces, were widely blamed for the collapse of many of the great civilisations in the Near East and Mediterranean at the end of the Bronze age 3,200 years ago .
8957
The birthday gift comes four days after her Hollywood producer husband learned he will not face criminal charges after Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, told police he had groped her.
8958
Ranked well below battle-hardened foreign jihadis from warzones such as Chechnya and East Africa, the Westerners believe ultra-violence is the only way to make their name in Syria and Iraq.
8959
Kellogg’s said comments in its annual report are not related to Chancellor George Osborne’s ‘diverted profits tax’ – which aims to snare companies that shunt profits overseas with the main purpose of saving tax .
8960
'When leaving Sydney, sit on the right hand side of the aircraft to get the best views of Sydney Harbour,' says Captain Derek May, British Airways.
8961
Chan and Sukumaran remain in an isolated cell on Nusakambangan Island where they have lodged a challenge with the Constitutional Court to have their death sentence overturned.
8962
The 39-year-old's remains were stuffed into two suitcases before Simon and Bird threw them into Birmingham Canal, a court heard.
8963
The 74-year-old died after the burgundy Kia Venga, pictured, had its engine running and 'lurched forward', trapping her under the wheels .
8964
The body of Kyle Knox has been found near the foot of Ben Nevis three weeks after he disappeared .
Kyle Knox, from London, was last seen alive at the foot of Ben Nevis on March 31.
8965
Jason Warnock was named as the hero who rescued 23-year-old Mathew Sitko after he crashed his car on Wednesday morning, causing it to hang off a canyon cliff in Lewiston, Idaho.
8966
Shocked neighbours heard yelling and screaming moments before Ms Huxham was abducted from her home by a man who reportedly attacked her with a machete.
8967
'So I went back inside and I asked the owner Al Martin and I said, "Al, why did you pay me $10 and you paid Todd Barry $60?"' she said.
8968
Form victim to hero: Terry McCarty was just six years old (left) when he suffered third-degree burns to 70 per cent of his body in a childhood accident.
8969
Ed Miliband, speaking at Chatham House in central London this morning, has been accused of stooping to a 'shameful' new low by blaming David Cameron for the Mediterranean refugee crisis .
8970
However everything else in the kitchen was delivered in boxes: chips, nuggets and popcorn chicken were stored in another of the cool rooms, fresh vegetables are delivered pre-cut in bags and bread is also delivered from a bakery and stored in boxes.
8971
NJ.com reports that Adams faces federal drug smuggling charges.
Thenga Adams now faces federal narcotics smuggling charges for the drugs allegedly found in his sneakers .
8972
Elizabeth Sedway, 51, from Granite Hill, California, posted an emotional video on her Facebook page Monday showing her family being kicked off a packed plane.
8973
Carlos Tevez has been told to terminate his contract with Juventus to complete a return to his former club Boca Juniors in Argentina.
8974
Giant hailstones the size of plums crashed down over the South on Tuesday with residents rushing out to capture the freak weather.
Monster hail:
8975
'We want justice and we welcome the resolution that this trial brings.'
Mrs Kor's co-plaintiffs said they could not forgive Mr Groening for his participation in the murders .
8976
Cheryl Heineman (left), 45, a third-grade teacher from Florida, is accused of selling narcotics to an undercover officer with her 20-year-old lover, Jack Lindsey (right)
8977
Carl Froch's dream of a swansong fight in Las Vegas against Julio Cesar Chavez Jr looks to have gone up in smoke after the former middleweight world champion was stopped in nine rounds by Andrzej Fonfara.
8978
Mr Johnson, who repeatedly told passersby he and Mr Mackinlay were campaigning for 'regeneration for Ramsgate', said he was eager to see the former Ukip leader join the Tory ranks in Parliament.
8979
Anderson induced an edge from West Indies captain Denesh Ramdin on the final day of the first Test in Antigua for his 384th Test scalp on Friday, breaking Sir Ian Botham's record which had stood for 23 years.
8980
His lawyers are asking the jury to find him not guilty by reason of insanity, which would send him to the state mental hospital indefinitely.
Holmes' defense attorneys want the jury to find him not guilty by reason of insanity.
On the left, a sketch of Holmes in court on Monday and 2012 mugshot on the right .
Holmes' lawyers have not cross-examined any prosecution witnesses.
8981
A young primary school teacher has died after she was run down buy a car at the end of a Mexican holiday when just hours earlier she had texted she was having ‘best time ever'.
8982
One took a picture of its license plate.
The judge brought the jury in Wednesday afternoon after receiving two questions about the possession charges.
8983
Raheem Sterling looks relaxed during Liverpool's training session on Thursday morning despite uncertainty over his future at the club following revelations made in a TV interview .
8984
Wichita Falls officials first said that the American Eagle pilot had the wrong radio frequency to turn on the lights on the main, 13,000-foot runway (file photo)
8985
Chapman even had a little helper joining her in the design room on Thursday - the couple's son Dashiell.
'She thinks it’s embarrassing not only to her, but to their kids.'
8986
Deni then returned to High Street Kensington to find out whether she could bag a free coffee in her glam getup - and went into the South Kensington branch twice to find out if the result would differ depending on whether it was a man or woman serving.
8987
Locals discovered the dead pair, believed to be in their mid to late 20s, in separate metal trunks in a public park in Haryana state, around 30 miles south of New Delhi.
8988
Charge seven: Indecent assault on woman over 16 years of age in 2003 at Capital Radio .
Charge nine:Sexual assault on a female in 2014 in central London .
8989
Larung Gar Buddhist Academy is home to 40,000 monks and nuns, who travel to the settlement of Sertar to study Tibetan Buddhism .
8990
Two people were taken away by police officers after they rushed the stage and attempted to disrupt the rally .
It's a racket, a money-making racket.'
8991
Never too early: David said that he and his wife were told six hours after Jonathan’s birth that they would be getting a small college savings fund and that they were thrilled .
8992
During the 2011 incident in Garland, felony warrants were issued for Talib and his mother Okolo Talib on charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon.
8993
A US-based attorney for Heather Mack, 19, who is accused of murdering her socialite mother in Bali, has filed for about half a million dollars to be transferred to Mack's daughter Stella from Mack's trust fund .
8994
Suchet, 68, left, and as Poirot, right, said ‘mismanagement in the admin side’ of the NHS means his grandson is not receiving treatment that could help him .
8995
Mark-Francis's most expensive watch is a Cartier white gold Moonphase (left), while one of his flashiest is a  Bulgari Chrono 42 (right)
And finally, for the man who has a watch for every occasion - the timepiece that he wears when visiting East London... a Rolex yellow gold Oyster Perpetual.
8996
'But I also love group Cosplay which is when a bunch of us get together and have a theme like the walking dead and we'll go to a convention and just walk around the floor being those characters,' Ms Johsnton, dressed as DC COmic's Huntress, added .
8997
The revolutionary's body is on public display in a mausoleum on Moscow's Red Square more than two decades after the break-up of the former USSR.
8998
Four South African men accused of stabbing a Mozambican man to death in an anti-immigrant attack in a Johannesburg township  appeared in court today.
8999
Hopefully there is more to come in the years to come.
‘We've both got to keep working hard, as do the other strikers who are trying to get a place.
9000
The Poland international, now 25, was joined at his home by family and friends as well as one of his favourite rock bands, 'Lemon', who delivered a private performance.
9001
The letter suggests some reservist troops will lose their posts in 77 Brigade, while many soldiers do not know what roles they will be assigned.
9002
Queensland amusement park Dreamworld is being sued for $290,000 by a former casual employee, who claims she suffers from an permanent disability caused by checking harnesses on the Tower of Terror thrill ride.
9003
Canadian teacher Neil Bantleman kisses his wife Tracy before being sentenced to ten years in prison for sexually abusing three young children at a prestigious international school in Indonesia today .
9004
It could be the result of jetlag, or maybe a few too many beers.
A man decided to have a snooze on the airport baggage reclaim, not looking too comfortable .
9005
Army psychiatrist Major Nidal Hasan opened fire on November 5, 2009, killing 13 men and women at the military post in Killeen, Texas, injuring 30 others before he was shot himself.
9006
Delighted: Openly-gay high school junior, Anthony Martinez, was touched when his straight guy pal Jacob Lescenski, came up with an extra special promposal idea (the pair are seen, right) Martinez instantly responded to the question with a big 'yes' and excited hug.
9007
Ex-QPR boss Harry Redknapp has described the club as 'like a bit of a soap opera' after quitting in February .
'There was always talk about Tim Sherwood coming in.
9008
In the beautiful new pictures by Gisèle Freund the late artist Frida is seen at her most intimate, her she is pictured standing in her garden in Mexico .
9009
He added: 'She is 54, of good character.
Border was sentenced to 16 months in prison, suspended for two years, at Nottingham Crown Court (pictured) yesterday .
9010
The Ibrox side crashed to a second Championship defeat of the season at Palmerston as Derek Lyle, Gavin Reilly and a Lee Wallace own goal gave Queen of the South’s play-off hopes a massive boost.
9011
Imran Uddin, 25, who was studying science, bought keyboard spying equipment on the internet which he then connected to a number of university computers.
9012
'As soon as I pulled him out, his pour little belly looked like it was full of water, and kind of knew when I pulled him out that he was gone,' said Drake Dufrene (above) the boy's father .
9013
A new book by author Martin Fletcher has revealed a series of other blazes at businesses owned by or associated with Stafford Heginbotham, the club's chairman at the time of the tragedy in 1985.
9014
Defences across the country have found it impossible to cope with Manchester United of late, but a John Terry-marshalled Chelsea kept them out to take another step towards the Premier League title.
9015
Roger Lohse, a reporter with Miami-area station WPLG, was about to finish reporting on an 800-acre blaze in southwest Miami-Dade when his cameraman pointed out something behind him.
9016
Glasgow Warriors have been placed on high alert after it was revealed Richie Gray will be sold to the highest bidder if Castres are relegated from the Top 14.
9017
England's Justin Rose will be in the final pair with Masters leader Jordan Spieth as he looks to chase down the young American on Sunday.
9018
Murdered: A University of Mary Washington student has been charged with abduction and murder in the death of his roommate, 20-year-old Grace Rebecca Mann of Falls Church (pictured)
9019
Playing dead: Illini Bluffs High School senior Alanni Young stands Thursday as American Red Cross Central Illinois Chapter employee Lisa Maynard adds a touch of realism before a simulated prom night  accident .
9020
N'Zogbia has featured regularly under Sherwood since he was appointed in February, but after catching a glimpse of his outfit may have had a few choice words for the former Newcastle man.
9021
There are already key fobs that can unlock handsets and many people no longer input a PIN, instead using biometric technology such as fingerprint scanners and iris scanners (illustrated) to unlock their smartphones .
9022
Jack Grealish has a message for Premier League referees: you can keep telling me to pull my socks up but there's no chance of me listening.
9023
The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office falsified the training and firearms records of the millionaire reserve deputy who shot dead an unarmed suspect by mistake, claim sources within the department.
9024
Third place was awarded to Egor Orlov from Russia for his project Cybertopia which reimagines the city of the future as the combination of digital and physical worlds - 'a city that grows and morphs instantly according to its residents needs.'
9025
A tunnel could be built under Mount Everest as part of a new railway between China and Nepal, it has been revealed.
9026
In one case, a voter complained that wealthy party donors were luring young activists to a key seat with the 'unfair' promise of free curry, nightclub entertainment and hotel stays.
9027
Zlatan Ibrahimovic would have been idolised at the Stade Velodrome if he had followed in the same footsteps at Eric Cantona, according to former Marseille boss Jose Anigo.
9028
Experts believe the barrel jellyfish, which can grow up to six feet, have been attracted by the warmer waters and a lack of predators .
9029
With Arsenal, Aston Villa and Reading already in the last four, the FA Cup is guaranteed to find itself with semi-finalists who desperately want to lift the trophy.
9030
In the 26th minute, with County having been awarded a free kick on the edge of the box, Laura Bassett and Alex Greenwood appeared to mess things up, the former almost running into the latter.
9031
TripAdvisor's annual cost comparison report compared the cost of hotel room service items in 48 popular holiday destinations around the world and found that guests could buy 16 bottles of vodka in Kiev, Ukraine, for the same price as a club sandwich in Zurich.
9032
Mourinho is prepared to risk the availability of Cesc Fabregas and Nemanja Matic — both one booking away from a two-match ban — for the matches against Chelsea's rivals, saying: 'We try not to get a yellow card during the match, to play football.
9033
In the two-legged Spanish Super Cup at the start of the season Atletico drew 1-1 in the Bernabeu and beat Real 1-0 in the Calderon.
9034
'I don’t know or follow any of these people on Twitter but there it was, all live for me to watch on my train ride home,' he said.
9035
World No 5 Caroline Wozniacki was invited to the White House on Monday to take part in the annual Easter Egg Roll and played tennis with US President Barack Obama.
9036
Labour candidate Paul Gilbert mocked Ed Miliband and then joked that he hoped his 'off-piste' comment would not 'find it's way back' to the Labour leadership .
9037
A pedestrian was killed and another injured when they were struck by a car fleeing police during a wild chase through San Francisco, and the suspects involved were still on the loose Saturday.
9038
Alleged kidnapper: Isidro Garcia, 41, will stand trial on charges of kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old girl that he went on to marry and live with for a decade .
9039
‘With the squad City have they should do better,’ he said, ‘I think they have the best players in the Premier League, so they should be the best team, but they are not.
9040
'I wish I had.
But he had been out walking with his beloved wife Daphne for 40 minutes every morning, in the hope that he could return to work.
9041
Treasury analysis suggests the package would cost taxpayers £148billion over five years.
Scrapping the spare room subsidy will cost £470million.
9042
More than a thousand twitchers travelled to Somerset this weekend after a rare bird was spotted for only the third time in the UK.
9043
Kevin Pietersen battered Oxford’s students for 170 off 149 deliveries in his first game of red-ball cricket for 15 months – then insisted the incoming ECB chairman Colin Graves has told him everyone has a ‘clean slate’.
9044
A Russian-language version of Apple's personal assistant Siri has been caught giving apparently homophobic responses to questions about gay people.
9045
In a ruling that could end the reign of illegal online downloading, the Federal Court of Australia has ordered Australian internet companies to reveal the IP addresses of thousands of account holders who illegally uploaded the film The Dallas Buyers Club online.
9046
Visit site .
Dr Venkat says women generally don't need to worry about staying in shape during pregnancy but Sarah is clearly keen to continue with her regular gym sessions .
9047
Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone with Lewis Hamilton in Bahrain .
Nico Rosberg got the better of Mercedes team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Bahrain second practice .
9048
The day after Mangan was found, a mother of one of Morton's friends told police her son received a selfie on Snapchat of the victim who was sitting in a chair with a bloody wound to his face, according to the Post-Gazette.
9049
Andrew Stewart Wood, of Havant, Hampshire, was accused of urinating into the ice machine at the Hard Rock Hotel in the Universal theme park resort in the early hours of Tuesday.
9050
Another baby is dressed up as widely-recognisable Nintendo character Mario, complete with tiny dungarees, the red flat cap and even a fake felt moustache .
9051
'I was told to stick to flats or shoes with a very low heel and to spend as much time barefoot as possible to help correct my posture, which had been thrown out of alignment by wearing heels day in and day out,' she says.
9052
'Djokovic was good in 2011, in 2012, 2013 as well as in 2015.
'This year I have to do things right, get back to a very high level to face him on the court,' Nadal said.
9053
This is the first time Juventus have made the last-four of UEFA's flagship club competition since 2003, when a Pavel Nedved-inspired side won the second leg against Real 3-1 - 4-3 on aggregate - overturning a 2-1 first-leg deficit.
9054
Miss Redhead, 33, who has waived her right to anonymity, was left with post-traumatic stress disorder after being repeatedly raped by her former partner, Philip Kirby.
9055
The Stanford home's laundry shows signs of wear-and-tear, with uneven tiling and white painted walls featuring signs of dirt and wear-and-tear .
9056
During a lesson on tolerance and acceptance, children at Horace Mitchell Primary School in Kittery Point were read I Am Jazz, a book about a child 'with a boy's body and a girl's brain' who eventually finds a doctor that tells the family the boy is a transgender.
9057
The PM also revealed that nothing made him ‘more angry’ than the Tories being called the party of the rich and admitted there were people who did not pay tax in Britain who ‘damn well should’.
9058
Despite having a high-flying career, Vicky Pryce has managed to raise five children...but admits she would miss them when work commitments came calling .
9059
Car SOS, which broadcasts on the National Geographic Channel on Thursday, sees the rusty Sprite rescued from a suburban garage and carefully renovated before Sir Stirling puts it through its paces once again.
9060
'When Hillary Clinton travels there's going to need to be two planes, one for her and her entourage, one for her baggage,' Rand Paul said during remarks at a New Hampshire GOP summit taking place in Nashua this weekend .
9061
Ms Msimang said we can only reach level footing by recognising that difference isn't always a bad thing.
She said Aboriginal people don't make a 'lifestyle choice' to live on the land, instead, it's their connection with country that's meant they've stayed there and the fact that such plans could be even contemplated speaks to a ‘far larger problems in this country.’
In fact, it will only make us stronger.’
9062
Manchester United legends Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Paul Scholes showed off their netball skills when they joined Manchester Thunder netball team to promote the Superleague semi-finals.
9063
Tammy Sadek believes the answer is that her 20-year-old son signed his own death warrant when he agreed to become a confidential informant for police after they caught him selling marijuana.
9064
The poll found two in five  people had injured their back, one in five had cut themselves and one in ten had suffered side effects from inhaling chemical fumes - and men are more likely than women to cut corners .
9065
At least the families will soon know the fate of their sons and cousins,' he said.
'At least the families will soon know the fate of their sons and cousins,' said one relative .
9066
The University of Connecticut baseball team has taken on its newest member: 5-year-old Grayson Hand, who is battling leukemia .
9067
Chanelle Scheepers of South Africa won 6-2 2-6 6-4 against New Zealand's Marina Erakovic while Croatian Ajla Tomljanovic beat Romania's Alexandra Dulgheru 7-6 (7/5) 4-6 6-4.
9068
Before it began lifting its head all the way back and opening its mouth extremely wide to show off the size difference between the two parts of its beak.
9069
The jury at Teesside Crown Court took less than an hour to return unanimous not guilty verdicts to charges of unlawful wounding and inflicting grievous bodily harm.
9070
Time to get up: One cub wakes up while the other bear-ly stirs as they are snapped after they take a nap on banks of a lake in Russia .
9071
Rob Ford announced on Thursday that he will undergo a lengthy operation to remove a cancerous tumor from his abdomen in May.
He hopes to return to work as a councilor in September, he said .
9072
According to relief workers in the area, Zeynab was killed on Tuesday as she tried to make her way from Yarmouk to a nearby neighbourhood controlled by the Syrian Army (pictured, ISIS fighters in Yarmouk)
9073
Jeffrey Walker told jurors that the Philadelphia Police Department drug squad targeted 'white 'college-boy... khaki-pants types' who were 'easy to intimidate'
9074
'In my head, I thought it was fine to drink so many energy drinks.
'When I was working at the bar during the weekend, I would drink about seven energy drinks in a shift.
9075
Amanda Murphy's mother, Tammy Langlois, and Murphy's sister, Ashley Murphy, cry after speaking about the moment they learned of the accident that killed Murphy, her unborn child, and her fiancee, Jason Timmons, during Robert Dellinger's sentencing  on Wednesday .
9076
'I just turned and the whole time I was talking to the cops I’m getting sprayed with pepper spray,' Staten said.
It is unclear whether Smith and the girl are related.
9077
If it is serious as suggested then Luiz will surely be a doubt for PSG's upcoming games with Saint-Etienne, Bastia and Barcelona, whom the French side face in the first leg of their Champions League quarter-final on April 15.
9078
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is an inherited condition that causes small, fluid-filled sacs called cysts to develop in the kidneys.
9079
Real Madrid winger Gareth Bale will be rested for Saturday's La Liga game at home to Eibar, coach Carlo Ancelotti said on Friday, meaning the Welshman joins suspended midfielders Toni Kroos and James Rodriguez on the sidelines.
9080
The European Union will today accuse Google of illegally abusing its supremacy on the internet search market.
Google and the EU commission declined to comment last night.
9081
Southend United's promotion charge continued on Tuesday night  at Bury when a David Worrall free-kick enabled them to leapfrog their hosts into fourth place.
9082
Not sharing the joke: Duke University did respond to Miss O'Dell's email, but clearly didn't share her sense of humour, instead telling her she could appeal their decision, but was unlikely to get it overturned .
9083
Spanish newspaper Mundo Deportivo report that an All-Star match has been proposed that would bring together the cream of European talent - including Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi (pictured)
9084
Retired CIA officer Sandra Grimes, 69, who helped expose her colleague Aldrich Ames as a Russian double agent, says she sees nothing of herself in the characters at the center of shows like State of Affairs and Homeland.
9085
Real Madrid have their 'six nations' available again: (back l-r) Toni Kroos (Germany), Karim Benzema (France), Cristiano Ronaldo (Portugal) - (front) Gareth Bale (Wales), James Rodriguez (Colombia), Luka Modric (Croatia .
9086
Travis Hatfield, 21, from Gilbert, West Virginia sung a George Jones hit to his 47-year-old uncle, Jamie Joe Cline.
The video went viral onine .
9087
The video above, recorded by researchers at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, shows how that despite its body orientation (green arrow) the octopus can crawl in any direction (blue arrow) thanks to its flexible arms .
9088
But the boy's body rejected the organ, leading to years of trips to hospital, until father Xiao Kunqing was allowed to donate 40 per cent of his liver yesterday, leading to a full recovery.
9089
Hillary Clinton’s now-famous Scooby Doo van made an appearance in Council Bluffs, Iowa on Thursday for a closed-door meeting with state Democratic Party officials – and it idled in a handicapped parking space from beginning to end.
9090
Sania Mirza became the first Indian to climb to the top of the WTA doubles ranking after she teamed up with Swiss great Martina Hingis to claim the Family Circle Cup title.
9091
Two people died and 22 were injured in last week's explosion, which authorities now believe was caused by an illegally tapped gas line .
9092
A user called Simon McCallum tweeted: ‘At last Twitter officially launches “Retweet With Comment” feature so you don't need to edit original tweets,’ while Peter Silk said: ‘Retweet with comment is the best feature since retweet’.
9093
'I like the feel of Rangers.
Every player doesn't want to just train on the training ground, they want to be recognised in the games and score goals.
9094
In his written ruling, High Court judge Mr Justice Mostyn said Mrs Dellal had argued a ‘strong’ case that her husband had access to ‘very considerable resources’, but said there was little evidence he had given it to his children in secret.
9095
'I think a lot of people remember where they were when they had a good meal with special people at special times - if you can get involved with that by having a restaurant, it’s really good.
9096
Tarnished star: Kim Richards leaving the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in Beverly Hills, where she had an emotionally-charged interview with Dr Phil McGraw .
9097
Dog walker Peter Hamilton heard the woman's cries for help before he saw her come out of the house bound by restraints and naked from the waist down .
9098
Matthew Colvin, 26, was behind bars on Tuesday in Southhaven, Mississippi, and  will be extradited back to Memphis on Wednesday.
9099
Ingredients: Seeded roll or bagel; butter; small bunch of watercress; smoked ham; one boiled egg, sliced; gherkins; mustard mayonnaise; capers .
9100
Manchester City's FA Cup-winning goalkeeper, Harry Dowd, has died, aged 76.
Harry Dowd (third from right) celebrates after Manchester City win the FA Cup at Wembley in 1969 .
9101
Former Manchester United midfielder Eric Cantona has refuted claims he starred in a soft porn film, insisting You and the Night is a 'piece of art'.
9102
The accounts  reveal £29.8m was spent on signings after June 30, with £12.6m coming in player sales - mainly from Mathieu Debuchy's move to Arsenal (pictured)
9103
The never-ending chaos at Leeds continued on Friday as six players withdrew from Saturday's game at Charlton citing injury.
9104
Manchester City forward Toni Duggan has apologised to fans after posting a photo with Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal on Instagram.
9105
The company agrees to pay £7.75million to Citizens Advice to help vulnerable customers in addition to £400,000 already paid to those affected, after it was found to have overcharged in the wake of price rises.
9106
Mr Phillips ran off into the ‘pitch black’ and fell down a cliff at the end of the disused Northern Promenade – also called The Dardanelles.
9107
Chelsea midfielder Cesc Fabregas took to Instagram to show off the shiners he picked up from Stoke City midfielder Charlie Adam on Saturday.
9108
Queens doorman Ralph Body was a smiling fixture in the lobby of the luxury 27 on 27th building in Long Island City, but was fired for, according to him, being too nice .
9109
Manchester United target Nathaniel Clyne admits he wants to play Champions League football as the Southampton defender continues to be linked with a move away from the south coast.
9110
The specially-produced advert will be played, featuring 'Darren' – the man fictionally in charge of keeping E4 on air, sitting in the channel's control room.
9111
Antonio Nunez allegedly stabbed his girlfriend in the backside with a pitchfork during an argument .
Nuñez will be charged with aggravated assault, the Houston Chronicle reported.
9112
Paul Smith, having bravely lost his two challenges to Arthur Abraham in Germany, now finds himself in pole position for a third successive joust against a reigning world super-middleweight champion.
9113
If Terry manages to make appearances in all of Chelsea's remaining fixtures against Leicester, Crystal Palace, Liverpool, West Brom and Sunderland, he will beat the 37 domestic appearances he made during his side's last title-winning season in 2009-10.
9114
A protective dad has devised a creative way to keep the boys away from his young daughter - by printing his muscly torso on a t-shirt and making her wear it.
9115
In this file photo, attorney Claudia Osuna holds a photo of the Crespo family - from top left to bottom right, Bell Gardens, Calif., Mayor Daniel Crespo, his daughter Crystal, his wife Lyvette and son Daniel Crespo Jr.
9116
Gena McCarthy, SVP Programming and Development at FYI, said the show is testing if separating people makes them miss one another even more than they imagined was possible.
9117
She was delivered 10 weeks prematurely by C-section, but staff failed to ventilate her properly, which caused severe brain damage .
9118
The exclusive St George's School in Ascot (pictured) which was originally a boys' school, has an impressive alumni including Sir Winston Churchill, Princess Beatrice and even Made in Chelsea star Kimberley Garner .
9119
In a new report, Goldman Sachs predicts population growth will slow to 1.25 per cent over the next three years due to low birth rates, high death rates and falling net migration.
9120
And Lynn Rishell's brother's wife, Grace Rishell, has opened up to say that the FBI told her about a secret $400,000 life insurance policy Henthorn had taken out on her, too.
9121
Two-time Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton has opened up about the meaning behind his tattoos during an interview with lifestyle magazine Men's Health.
9122
Underwater company Deep Ocean Search (DOS), which included 20 French oceanographers, was then contracted by the UK Ministry of Transport to recover the coins from a record depth of 17,000ft - some 4,500ft deeper than the Titanic.
9123
Ronaldo reflects after a missed chance during the Real Madrid vs Atletico Madrid tie in the Champions League quarter-final second leg .
9124
Instead of building masts, Google will buy access to existing 3G and 4G networks at wholesale prices and sell the connectivity back to customers at a cheaper rate.
9125
Following her announcement, famous friends passed on their best wishes to the actress as Katie Couric wrote: 'Sending the wonderful Rita Wilson my love and best wishes for a speedy recovery and good health.'
9126
Visit site .
It's really important to remember that all it is noise, noise that can be very loud at times'
As rumours of Prince Harry and Cressida's engagement circulated, the Duchess of Cambridge was even said to be helping shy Cressie learn how to handle to the intensity of the Royal spotlight .
9127
Taking the stand against Charlie Bothuell IV and Monique Dillard-Bothuell on Tuesday, Charlie Bothuell, who was 12 when he was found in the basement, described the horrors of his home life.
9128
Katelyn Roman, 12, and Guadalupe Shaw, 13, were arrested a month after the suicide for allegedly bullying the girl - but the charges were dropped when police filed to find evidence of harassment .
9129
A dismembered body discovered at a flat in Wales has been identified as Tracey Woodford, police said, as a man was arrested over her murder.
9130
Jamie Carragher does not feel Diego Simeone plays the type of football which would attract Arsenal, Manchester United or City.
How do you stop them?
9131
Frankie Dettori will be left to focus on the British Flat season this summer after boss Sheik Joaan Al Thani signed up Gregory Benoist to ride the horses which race under his Al Shaqab banner in France.
9132
Eye on the prize: Mr Johnson, running to become MP in Uxbridge and South Ruislip, has long been tipped as a future leader of the party, most recently by Mr Cameron.
9133
Leaving it to the pros: They have been using their business managers to work out a settlement agreement involving both property and custody .
9134
Indeed, she hit a driver off every tee, which is the way she likes to do things in practice.
The 19-year-old has the same mentality and 'wow factor' as world No 1 Rory McIlroy .
9135
These are the shocking images of a pet owner's squalor living conditions in Adelaide, where he raised his three cats.
9136
Marseille have not had this many points in Ligue 1 at this stage since winning the title back in 2010 .
The one who strikes, sees blood, is repelled and recoils.
9137
The Toffees have been sponsored by Thai beverage Chang Beer for over 11 years and Jagielka, who scored the winner against Southampton on Saturday, was on hand to visit Chaophraya restaurant in Liverpool for a special cookery lesson.
9138
Auctioneer Richard Bromell (pictured) gave the tiny painting an estimated value of about £300 to £400 but it ended up selling for more than £120,000 .
9139
Richie Benaud was one of cricket's great personalities and will be remembered for his dry wit and knowledge .
And I know how much viewers responded to that.
9140
The United States of America (pictured in light green) are among the top 20 countries in the world for having a female boss, as 42.7% of all managers are female .
9141
The family of murdered Melbourne baseball player Chris Lane (From left) sister Erin hugs Chris's girlfriend Sarah Harper (blonde) after the US court verdict in Duncan, Friday, April 17, 2015 .
9142
The 18-year-old was hit over the head 20 times with a rock and dragged into a garden to be brutally raped by the man and left for dead in the Beeston area of Leeds last month.
9143
Zayn and Perrie pictured in happier times, the young couple have this week jetted off on what was thought to be a make or break holiday following accusations of him cheating .
9144
Created by artist Paul Erard in the Swiss city of La Chaux-de-Fonds, the petite pistol (pictured left alongside a full-size revolver) measures just two inches long but fires with one joule of power .
9145
The fatally-wounded man, who is being held by his neck and back by the deputies (pictured), says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
He shot me, man.'
9146
Apple boss Tim Cook said the Watch's 'all-day' battery life lasts 18 hours with 'typical use' - but official tests recently revealed this equates to just 90 time checks, 90 notifications, 45 minutes of app use, and a 30-minute workout with music.
9147
What had led up to the removal of the four sisters in Australia and their return to Italy was the fact that their mother had taken them from their home in Italy on a 'vacation' and never returned, claiming the girls' father Tomaso was an abuser .
9148
Millions of years ago, volcanic activity covered the region under several layers of ash.
The idea for underground cities came during the Byzantine-era when residents used them as hideouts when threatened by invasion by the Persians, Arabs and Seljuq Turks.
Millions of years ago, volcanic activity covered the region under several layers of ash.
9149
Australia 108 will contain 1,105 luxury apartments, as well as retail tenancies, a multi-level carpark and communal facilities for residents including pools, gym, sauna, steam room and private theatre.
9150
'A giant step forward': Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi speaks after EU leaders agreed a package of measures to tackle the growing migrant crisis including extra military and a tripling of funding for patrols .
9151
Bayern duo Xabi Alonso and Bastian Schweinsteiger are also approaching the latter stages of their career .
That is Lahm's duty as well as the club's.'
9152
Josh Harrop starred as Manchester United secured a hard-earned victory against West Ham United to go four points clear at the top of the Under 21 Premier League.
9153
Bryan Morseman, 29, of Bath, New York, ran three marathons in eight days in hopes of raising money to pay for Leeim's medical bills .
9154
Junior is currently still employed at Menzies, but he has been permanently banned from working on Alaska Airlines flights - one of the biggest airlines that fly our of Sea-Tac Airport.
9155
It’s not just about style — he plays to win.
Mourinho has a poor Premier League Manager of the Month record; he has won as many as Alan Curbishley .
9156
Puren - who has died aged 96 - was the youngest brother of the final Qing monarch Puyi (above), who ruled for four years until 1912 .
9157
A Romanian woman being deported from New Zealand after relationship broke down, has been told she must leave her 2-year-old son, Chris behind .
9158
Easter surprise:  
Tahlequah police said a package intercepted in Tulsa County contained an Easter bunny stuffed with $30,000 worth of meth.
9159
Police say 55-year-old Deanna Rudison was captured on a surveillance camera at Quick Stop gas station in the 3300 block of Carondelet Street this morning splashing a liquid believed to be bleach at an 18-year-old girl and her 15-year-old friend.
9160
The bizarre incident was caught on CCTV and shows an unidentified man trying to lift the exit barrier at Nottingham train station's multi-storey car park, damaging it in the process .
9161
Chelsea’s 17-year-old forward Dominic Solanke – who has played just 17 minutes for the first team - will deputise on the bench.
9162
Liverpool are being linked with the 29-year-old forward but it is understood that Paris Saint-Germain, Juventus and Valencia are more likely destinations.
9163
John Terry warned Arsenal that they will never win the Barclays Premier League by playing ‘tippy-tappy football’.
The play was different class.
9164
A powerful, deep-lying midfielder with a solid all-round game, the ex-Leeds man has added goals to his repertoire this season, scoring more in 38 games than he had in his previous four seasons.
Age: 21.
Position: Attacking midfielder.
9165
Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet has revealed how his mental strength helped him recover after being dropped last December.
9166
The Home Office was warned that Lord Janner was abusing young boys two decades ago but did nothing about it .
9167
Schneiderlin opened the scoring with his first Barclays Premier League goal since September, but a mistake from Saints goalkeeper Kelvin Davis allowed Mame Diouf to equalise and substitute Charlie Adam stole all three points with six minutes to go.
9168
The untried Barkley inexplicably took the 10th minute kick – awarded for a foul by David Jones on Aaron Lennon – rather than Leighton Baines, who has scored 15 penalties from 16 attempts in the Premier League.
9169
Millions of fake condoms sold by a gang across China have been seized by police after they were found to contain toxic metals.
9170
Miley Cyrus posed for a social media snap ahead of the 30th Annual Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame Induction Ceremony on Saturday in Cleveland, Ohio... and it appears that she had given her razor a night off .
9171
PARP inhibitors work by blocking the cancer cell’s ability to repair damage.
Side effects from traditional anti-cancer treatments are reduced because only tumour cells with genetic defects are targeted.
9172
In summary, then, Rodgers has insisted that Raheem Sterling will not be going anywhere this summer and that focus for the moment is purely on his football.
9173
Grieving Nikki Thomas, from South Wales, says she wants to turn back the clock and tell Jenna that she didn't have to 'put up' with her former partner's obsessive behaviour, including bombarding her with hundreds of calls and texts a day.
9174
Skegness Academy (above) in Lincolnshire claimed the detention was to give Courtney, whose mother runs a hotel in the seaside town, the best chance possible of doing well in her exams in the summer .
9175
The Canal and River Trust in Bath, who are carrying out the dredging operation, have so far removed 150 trolleys from the river bed as well six vehicles, one of which dating back over 40 years.
9176
The Directorate of Religious Affairs for Turkey stated that the use of the material for hygiene is acceptable but water was preferable.
9177
Wigan Warriors' Manfredi (centre) is tackled by St Helens' Josh Jones (left) and James Roby .
9178
Sydney couple Epiphany Morgan and Carl Mason produced 365 documentaries in as many days, visiting 35 countries and 70 cities, as part of their project 365 Docobites, an idea which even the couple originally doubted would actually work.
9179
Bayern Munich were crowned Bundesliga champions for the third year running without even kicking a ball on Sunday as their nearest rivals Wolfsburg went down to a 1-0 defeat at Borussia Monchengladbach.
9180
William Ziegler, now 39, was jailed in 2001 (pictured) for the killing of Russell Allen Baker, an acquaintance of his who was found dead next to his house in Mobile the previous year .
9181
Atmel said its MCUs extend 'battery life from years to decades, reducing the number of times batteries need to be changed in devices such as fire alarms, healthcare, medical, wearable, and devices placed in rural, agriculture, offshore and other remote areas.'
9182
During a 'Flex Cam' break at a Philadelphia Soul game on April 12 a woman proved that she had the biggest muscles in the room and maybe even the city.
9183
Hull 15/2 .
Managers: Ronald Koeman (Southampton), Steve Bruce (Hull) Head-to-head league record: Southampton wins 21, draws 18, Hull wins 12 .
9184
Managers: Roberto Martinez (Everton), Louis van Gaal (Manchester United)
Head-to-head league record: Everton wins 56, draws 40, Manchester United wins 75 .
9185
Female members of the Sawt al-Haq (Voice of Rights) battalion of the Free Syrian Army stand with their weapons as they undergo military training in Aleppo in 2013 .
9186
Afterwards, colleague Bill Turnbull made red-faced Stayt spell the word 'education' US politician Dan Quayle was mocked when he misspelt the word 'potato' on a school blackboard on June 15, 1992 when he was visiting a school in Trenton as part of his official duties.
9187
White solidarity groups in South Africa are protesting over the removal of a statue of British colonialist Cecil Rhodes from the University of Cape Town.
9188
A trick of the light or paranormal forces at play?
The spot, which has always been considered dangerous, is known as Murphy's Hole, and is over 20 foot deep.
9189
Kim Copeland, 52, was walking home from her local Sainsbury’s store in Coventry when she threw the used cigarette on the ground - before two council officers came ‘sprinting’ towards her to say she had committed a criminal offence.
9190
Lesley Anderson, 52, who owns Point Nouveau Bridal shop in Dunblane, sent a crystal-covered garter to Kim Sears six weeks ago and received kind a thank you note which said it was 'gorgeous'.
9191
Paris Saint-Germain's then sports director Leonardo declared the club were ready for tougher competitions in Europe two years ago but Tuesday's Champions League quarter-final exit suggests they need more time to reach the top.
9192
Shia paramilitary fighters looting and setting fire to buildings in Tikrit are 'out of control', an official said.
We can't control what is going on,' he said.
9193
Next on her agenda was an appearance on the balcony of the Amalienborg Palace alongside her son and heir, Crown Prince Frederik, 46, his wife Crown Princess Mary, 43, and their four children.
9194
The England striker failed to train again on Thursday as Brendan Rodgers stepped up preparations for Sunday’s FA Cup semi-final with Aston Villa, meaning Sturridge hasn’t been involved in any outdoor work since before the quarter-final replay against Blackburn.
9195
Scene:
Above, the scene .
The contractor WHH Nisqually had crews on the scene on Monday.
The contractor WHH Nisqually had crews on the scene Monday .
9196
A report on the threat posed by Australian foreign fighters has cited the Abbott government's 'troubled relations' with the Muslim community as undermining efforts at countering violent extremism.
9197
Proud mum Sarah Ivens with her two children, William (left) and one-year-old Matilda (centre) 'Have I left it too late to have a baby?’
9198
Brendan Rodgers admitted Liverpool are unlikely to reach the top four after losing to Arsenal 4-1 on Saturday .
'He felt it was too sore to travel.
9199
Mr Kay has taken his case to the IPCC after the driver who ploughed into his car will not face any further action after the investigating officer went off sick .
9200
Sebastien Pocognoli has risked the wrath of his manager Tony Pulis, after publicly stating his confusion at losing his place in the West Brom team.
9201
His optimism reflects the mood in Arsenal’s camp, very different from this time last year when they went into an FA Cup semi-final stifled by the desperation to end the trophy-free years and Arsene Wenger’s uncertain future.
9202
The league expects 6,000 of nearly 20,000 retired players to suffer from Alzheimer's disease or moderate dementia someday.
9203
The report reveals that there was a lack of coordination and management of hundreds of police officers who converged on a staging area at a local shopping mall in the hours after the shootout .
9204
Legal papers filed in a south Florida federal court describe Jackson waging an eight-year trail of deceit in which he variously posed as Oprah herself, Oprah's nephew, Love, an executive at the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN), and managers of Madonna and Johnny Depp.
9205
Hay Castle is infested with deathwatch beetles burrowing in to its timber frames .
Hay Castle has launched a fundraising drive to ensure its future in the fact of the insect threat .
9206
The pair married March 21 at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, after John, who was to turn 31 tomorrow, was told his cancer was terminal.
9207
This is the moment a thief casually strolls up to a Range Rover and takes less than 30 seconds to break into the vehicle and drive it away in a car hacking theft.
9208
The lizard swings its neck back and forth as it battles to swallow its catch, before managing to finish the feat in under a minute.
9209
Before the process: Oklahoma University student Kelsey Higley, pictured above in her natural form, made a video entitled 'Manipulation' which showed her body digitally altered according to beauty trends .
9210
The coin will be presented in a special white box, which will be tied with a purple ribbon and feature the image of a silver carousel horse .
9211
Google confirmed to Yahoo Finance in a statement that its current policy changed - meaning the company will store the balances for users of the mobile transfer service (similar to PayPal and Venmo) in multiple federally-insured banking institutions.
9212
Russ said the iPhone also makes it fun to create work.
Austin, Texas: Russ said he doesn't generally approach his pictures with a specific shot or subject in mind .
9213
Our first stop was St Tropez, which seemed to boast even more stunning luxury yachts than Monaco.
I woke early to be up on deck as the ship followed the coast road past Positano.
9214
Loretta Burroughs was found guilty last month of first-degree murder for stabbing her husband to death, dismembering him with a knife and a saw, packing the body parts into plastic containers, and dragging them with her as she moved three times in six years.
9215
Though his website, AlmostBlack.com, shows side-by-side qualifications and pictures of Chokal-Ingam as an Indian-American man (left) and a black man (right), he doesn't specify if he went through the same application process as an Inidan-American man as he did a black man .
9216
Another webbed tree trunk as shown in the video below was spotted in a public park last December in Nanning City -- also in Guangxi -- where monster roots have grown to create a trellis effect.
9217
It was 12 years ago that David Seaman pulled off one of the most iconic saves in FA Cup history against Sheffield United at Old Trafford - and the former Arsenal keeper says it's the best one he ever made.
9218
Ronny Deila agrees with Gary Teale's claim that St Mirren have one of the best pitches in the Scottish Premiership - but believes that is an indictment rather than a boast.
9219
24-year-old Krista Dotzenrod from Minnesota not only caught the foul ball hit at the game pitting the Cubs against Padres, but then chugged the beer in celebration .
9220
A Connecticut judge spared Kyle Seitz, pictured in court in November, from prison time in the July death of his 15-month-old son, Benjamin (right) whom he left in a hot car .
9221
Woods, 39, was pictured hugging Sam, 8, and Charlie, 6, during the second day of practice at the Augusta National Golf Club, Georgia, ahead of his latest attempt at a comeback at The Masters 2015.
Buy it here!
9222
Pele and Franz Beckenbauer were reunited on Friday to light up the Empire State Building in New York Cosmos green ahead of the start of the new season.
9223
Mr Cunningham had a fear of men in uniform and was running away from an Army patrol when he was shot.
Mr Cunningham was running away from an Army patrol when he was shot.
9224
George Bailey is to join Sussex for the second half of their NatWest T20 Blast campaign this summer.
9225
To make the bar, the team has cricket flour sent in, from farm-raised crickets that have been ground down (stock image of a great green bush-cricket shown)
9226
Street dance group Diversity formed in 2007 and won the third series of Britain's Got Talent in 2009, beating bookies favourite Susan Boyle to the No.1 spot.
9227
Police have launched a major investigation into claims of sexual abuse at care homes in Nottinghamshire dating back more than 70 years.
9228
The risk paid off as the 23-year-old, who promotes herself as 'the Barbie from Down Under', landed a major role in 2014 playing a catty maid, also named Natalia, in the new sitcom 'Ismol Family'.
9229
It follows years of Tory frustration over the ease with which illegal immigrants and foreign criminals can dodge deportation or delay it for years by claiming that it would breach their right to a family life under the European Convention on Human Rights.
9230
Pablo Osvaldo has urged Italian legends Andrea Pirlo and Francisco Totti to move continents and join him at Argentinian giants Boca Juniors.
9231
Karen - who said she was 'heartbroken' and that Sakir was her 'whole world' - also learned that they had both been given the same souvenir cup from Istanbul.
9232
An extraordinary image has emerged of what appears to be a cloud formation that draws uncanny similarities to an Aussie Digger wearing a slouch hat.
9233
Without amplitude modulation, for example in an anechoic (echo-free) room, pictured, a person can't tell how far away a noise is from them .
9234
Back in 2005 Uzbekistan were playing Bahrain in the Asian zone fourth-round play-off first leg when Japanese referee Toshimitsu Yoshida incorrectly awarded an indirect free-kick to Bahrain after the Uzbeks had encroached at their penalty kick when 1-0 up.
9235
Tottenham midfielder Tom Carroll who has been on loan at Swansea up until his ankle injury is another potential target for manager Tim Sherwood.
9236
Mohammed Waqar, 23, and Mohammed Siddique, 60, are accused of assaulting the youngster at the UK Islamic Mission's (UKIM) Jamia Mosque in Sparkbrook, Birmingham.
9237
Having won Premier League, Serie A and La Liga titles, as well as two Champions Leagues, Jose Mourinho has coached a whole host of world class stars during his 15-year career as a manager.
9238
It is also why Sanchez, Arsenal’s stand-out player this season, found it so difficult when he was rested for two games by Arsene Wenger — against Aston Villa and Tottenham — with a sore hamstring.
9239
She told Daily Mail Online that she’s ‘very supportive’ of Noah’s newfound fame and has said she couldn’t be ‘prouder’ of her ex.
So I said, "Okay."
9240
They had been downloaded more than 550,000 times as of early Sunday morning, Variety reported, citing the piracy-tracking company Excipio.
9241
Mark Dawe, head of the OCR exam board, said schoolchildren would only have a short time to use the search engine during tests - and compared it to using a calculator in a maths exam .
9242
Chris Rowe, pictured with his pregnant wife Kate and their three-year-old daughter, Sophia, was diagnosed with an aggressive form of lung cancer that had spread to his liver and bones, in December .
9243
Coffee filters are perfect for polishing leather shoes as they are lint-free and so won’t leave unsightly streak marks on your shoes.
9244
Micky Adams became the 42nd manager to be dismissed this season when he was fired on Sunday by Tranmere, rock bottom of the Football League.
28 .
9245
Pep Guardiola was left purring at Bayern Munich's first-half performance against Porto as the club put a turbulent week behind them to storm in to the Champions League semi-finals.
9246
A judge said he had to deal with his own 'revulsion' as he jailed four care home assistants who called their dementia residents 'fugly' and told one she was living in a brothel.
9247
Man United vs Man City - April 12 .
Crystal Palace vs Man City - April 6 .
Man United vs Man City - April 12 .
Man City vs West Ham - April 19 .
9248
Nishikori of Japan made light work of David Goffin and his 6-1 6-2 sees him progress to a match-up against big-serving American John Isner, who rallied to upset fifth seed Milos Raonic 6-7 (3/7) 7-6 (8/6) 7-6 (7/5) in a match which last two and three-quarter hours.
9249
However despite the fox’s best efforts to capture the Canadian goose - it only came away with a single feather.
Escape:
Spitting feathers!
9250
The 21-year-old should play again this season but the fear is that the problem could recur .
The 21-year-old should play again this season, but the fear is that the problem could recur.
9251
Describing the afternoon the two lovers spent on the boat, prosecutor Charles Ward-Jackson told the court: ‘Natasha Elderfield had on a short dress and for a while she also had on stockings and they were getting affectionate and were on the point of having sexual contact.
9252
Joanne Bolton told how she thought she was going to die at the hands of Steven Young during the 'brutal and merciless' seven hour long ordeal.
9253
If you see ‘Prosecco Superiore’ or any of these town names on the label, you’re likely to get a better quality of wine — and pay a higher price (currently, DOC quality wines range from £6 to £10, with DOCG quality wines from £7 to £15)
9254
They can be beneficial for sperm quality, are excellent sources of omega 3 fats and vitamin E, which is great for endometrial health, as well as B vitamins and protein.
9255
Brendan Rodgers is the first Liverpool manager since Phil Taylor in 1956-59 to not win a trophy in his first three seasons.
12 .
18 .
Rodgers
9256
Stijn Vandenbroucke, West Ham's Head of Medical and Sports Science, said on the club's official website: 'Andy is currently working on his rehab following knee surgery in warm-weather conditions in Dubai, as this is the perfect stage of his recovery to do so.
9257
Paige (right) was 15 when she vanished after a row with her father at their seaside home (left) and, despite appeals from police and a £12,000 reward offer from TV host Jeremy Kyle, no trace of her has ever been found .
9258
'If, at that point in time [last season], I was offered a contract, I most definitely would have signed straight away, probably for far less money than being said now.
9259
Liverpool signed the 20-year-old for £10million last summer after he impressed for Belgium at the World Cup before sending him straight back on loan to the Ligue 1 team.
9260
In the viral video, Russell-Boumzar allegedly refers to the train guard as 'n*****' and a 'black c***' repeatedly before he continues to explode into a racist rant during the five-minute video.
9261
Visit site .
While it may not look like it, Emily maintains that it's 'good' to indulge occasionally and she loves the odd cupcake or croissant in the morning .
9262
Pietersen is set to play against Oxford MCCU in The Parks as he prepares for the new season with Surrey .
9263
The organisation announced earlier this year that they will implement a new year-round, out-of-competition testing protocol following a string of high-profile failed tests by Anderson Silva, Nick Diaz and Hector Lombard.
9264
Roma failed to make the most of Lazio's defeat to league leaders Juventus, as they drew 1-1 at home to relegation-threatened Atalanta in Serie A to move level on points with their city rival in second spot.
9265
A disciplinary hearing upheld three complaints about the book, the invitation to attend church and Miss Wasteney’s offer to pray for Miss Nawaz, and gave her a written warning for misconduct.
9266
Jourdan and Naomi, who are close friends, look chic in the luxury British fashion house's colour-pop collared trench coats.
9267
The patterns will also be available for printing on iPhone cases after the company, which has already raised $13,798, reaches its $15,000 crowdfunding goal.
9268
Making changes: Dartmouth College President Philip Hanlon - who was a member of Alpha Delta in the 1970s - announced this year a series of reforms to eliminate problems he said were 'hijacking' Dartmouth's future .
9269
Prior studies have shown that people can be trained to improve their performance in the task, but if they move on to a second task too quickly, it can interfere with the learning process.
9270
Greater Manchester Police confirmed that six people - a 21-year-old man arrested at Birmingham Airport, two women and two men aged between 22 and 47 held at Manchester Airport, plus a 30-year-old man arrested in the Rochdale area, have been released without charge.
9271
The former drummer and a founding member of the Southern hard rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, Robert 'Bob' Burns Jr, died late Friday in a single-vehicle crash near Cartersville, Georgia.
9272
Atletico Madrid turned up the heat on Valencia in the battle for La Liga's third automatic Champions League berth with club top scorer Antoine Griezmann setting them on the way to a 2-0 stroll at bottom side Cordoba on Saturday.
9273
'I didn't feel like it was too bad today,' Ko said.
Ko  lines up a putt for par on the par 5, 18th hole during the second round of the ANA Inspiration o .
9274
It may have taken 170 minutes to come but super sub Yevhen Shakhov earned Dnipro a place in the Europa League semi-finals after breaking Brugge hearts with a late winner on Thursday night.
9275
This allows the touch sensor 'to scan users’ body parts, such as ears, fingers, fists, and palms by pressing them against the display.'
9276
'The flight attendant and myself started not feeling very well while we were in the middle of the flight helping out.
I had to sit down.
9277
Joseph Devaney, left, struck Cookie over the head with a meat cleaver while is accomplice Kieron Rolstron, right shouted at the terrified householders 'give me your money' and 'I will stab you' during last year's attack .
9278
The woman, named only as Ms Li, said that on the day of the attack, she and her husband fed their daughter then went to work near their house in Haimen City, eastern China.
9279
A choirmaster at King Edward's School (above) in Witley, Surrey, took a vulnerable student's virginity just months after she confided in him that she had been abused by another music teacher, a court heard .
9280
Robert Kennedy Jr has apologized for describing the number of children injured by vaccines as 'a holocaust'.
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
9281
O'Connor, seen with his daughter Crystal, says gays are welcome in his restaurant, but he would decline to cater a same-sex wedding because it would conflict with his beliefs .
9282
Waheed Ahmed, 21 – the son of councillor Shakil Ahmed, who was photographed with Ed Miliband recently – is said to be a member of the extremist group Hizb ut-Tahrir, which advocates a global Muslim caliphate, similar to the one established by Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.
9283
The search for a missing 15-year-old girl in Ohio who ran away from home on her bike early Sunday morning has ended after she was found in the same town safe and sound Monday afternoon.
9284
And he is set to follow Waratahs wing Peter Betham, whose signing was confirmed by the Tigers on Monday, to Welford Road next season.
9285
Tourist police officers Samuel Kvarzell, Markus Asberg, Eric Jansberger and Erik Naslund halted a fight between two homeless men on the Uptown 6 train this Wednesday.
9286
Scroll down for video .
When the time comes for Chloe to be released back into the wild she will first be transferred to a wombat ‘halfway house’.
9287
After being impressed by the amount of people who got in touch to express their support, Ashley launched a pay-it-forward scheme at her diner, where customers can pay for other people's meals.
9288
The man has now been suspended by Vodafone, which says it has a number of call centres in the UK but also sends some callers through to their office in South Africa.
9289
Thailand's Kiradech Aphibarnrat fired six birdies in the space of nine holes to surge into the lead at the Shenzhen International in China on Saturday.
9290
Arguably Suarez's most famous, yet controversial moment, when he bit Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini during the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and being banned for four-months.
9291
This involves spreading my fingers across the centre of my forehead, then pulling my fingertips down while pushing my brows up so I look very confused.
9292
US prosecutors allege Sarao, who was arrested last week, helped to trigger the so-called 'Flash Crash' of Wall Street on May 6, 2010, from his parents' house in Hounslow, West London.
9293
Shauna McGlasson was left red faced after becoming trapped in the turnstiles of the Alice and Wonderland ride when she took her daughter Lacey (pictured) to Blackpool Pleasure Beach after ballooning to 17st .
9294
Wales prop Gethin Jenkins is a doubt for Cardiff as the loosehead struggles with a calf strain .
'Gethin has got a calf strain but it is not as bad as we thought.
9295
'No, I don't think so,' he told Sky Sports 1.
We needed to win.
We were in our best form early on in the season and just before Christmas.
9296
Teofil Brank, better known by his stage name Jarec Wentworth, was arrested on March 4 by the FBI in Los Angeles on blackmail charges .
9297
John Foran was horrified to find a five inch piece of timber in his Iceland chicken tikka biryani curry .
He said: “It may only have been £2 but that’s beside the point.
9298
The BBC was accused of 'undermining' the Proms by Conservative Bill Cash, who said: 'The Proms are one of the great British institutions.
9299
Former Wisconsin sheriff's deputy Andrew Steele, pictured in court earlier this month, has been found not legally responsible in the killing of his wife and sister-in-law on Thursday .
9300
Overnight, she had been struck with Transient Global Amnesia, a form of memory loss brought on by stress that had wiped the 'episodic' part of her memory.
9301
The ex-cartel member became one of the DEA's most important assets  and helped the agency carry out undercover stings around the world, CBS News reported.
9302
Since the crash which is believed to be caused by 28-year-old co-pilot Andreas Lubitz (pictured), European air safety chiefs have recommended that two people must remain at all times on the flight deck .
9303
'We lost the quarter to Clermont four years ago and the semis to Toulon two years ago, and you saw out there that Racing didn't really know how to win the game.
9304
'I think we can definitely stay up - we have a stronger squad than a few of those teams in the Premier League and will add in the summer.'
9305
The lighthouse island is so popular that it is fully booked for 2015, but enquiries for 2016 can be made by emailing carantec@tourisme.morlaix.fr.
9306
Former Prime Minister John Howard found himself standing on the side of the road in Sydney recently as his driver changed their flat tyre .
9307
But he has revealed nine-in-a-row boss Smith - who McCall says was the 'greatest manager' he ever worked for - called to make sure the former Scotland international knew what he was letting himself in for when he agreed to replace Kenny McDowall.
9308
Sean McCabe planned his own funeral after he was told he had just two months to live, but after making a recovery he was told he was in remission and has rebooked the church for his wedding to Lisa Williams (left)
9309
Jose Mourinho could one day make a shock return to manage Real Madrid even after his high-profile and acrimonious exit, according to Real defender Alvaro Arbeloa.
9310
Gearing up for tonight's NCAA championship game, a group of meerkats have been testing out their basketball skills.
Team work:
Fancy footwork:
9311
She was allegedly gang-raped on Sunday when she went outside her house in Kosi Kalan, in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district, to relieve herself (file image)
9312
Michelle Heale of Tom's River, New Jersey claims she was trying to burp Mason Hess when he began choking on his applesauce, but when she pulled him off her shoulder his neck snapped backwards, killing the boy.
9313
Daniel's speech documented his brother falling in love with Sarah, saying his brother would mention her name in every conversation .
9314
However, the comedians and other super speakers showed lower levels of activity in an area of the brain known as Broca's region.
9315
England have been drawn with the Republic of Ireland, Holland and Italy in Group D of the UEFA Under 17 European Championships, which take place in Bulgaria in May.
9316
The Tennessee Supreme Court has vacated the execution dates of the last four men on the state's death row as new lethal injection methods are challenged.
9317
He said: ‘After every game we’ve played against Hibs this season, they have deserved to win according to Alan. ‘What he should maybe think about is where we are getting our goals from — crosses into their box.
9318
It comes after the Queen was revealed to have surprisingly simple tastes in food – including Special K, jam sandwiches, chocolate cake, venison and scones.
9319
'Hooliganism':
'We condemn these women.
The women's sentences come as Russia prepares to mark the 70th anniversary of the Second World War victory.
9320
Facebook's Sidebar status feature (pictured) will let users post a short message about what they are doing in a sidebar added to the social network’s mobile app, complete with an illustrative picture .
9321
Slager, 33, who is white, said that he felt 'threatened' by Scott, who is black, during a confrontation over his Taser, but video shows the civilian running away before being shot.
9322
The body of his sister  was found by police on Thursday night, just hours before her 57-year-old mother Bernadette was found dead at sheltered accommodation just half a mile away in Bootle, Merseyside.
9323
ESPN sports reporter Britt McHenry has been suspended for one week and could face further punishment after video surfaced of her berating an Advanced Towing employee in Arlington, Virginia .
9324
In video released by Blue Origin, the booster - using liquid hydrogen and oxygen - lifts the New Shepard vehicle to an altitude of 58 miles (94km).
9325
Speaking: Chelsea Manning, 27, the soldier convicted of leaking a trove of secret documents and sentenced to 35 year prison, has given her first in-depth interview since announcing plans to transition into a woman .
9326
Mimi was picked to star in the TV advert, which was broadcast last Wednesday (15), after Phil shared the video with the Pets at Home Facebook group earlier this month.
9327
An investigation has concluded Freddie Gray broke his neck after falling head-first into the back of the police van as it was moving, it was reported today.
9328
The Federal Aviation Administration had earlier given the green light to an Amazon prototype drone in March, but the company told U.S. lawmakers less than a week later that the prototype had already become obsolete while it waited more than six months for the agency's permission.
9329
The 47-year-old announced on Wednesday he will be leaving Borussia Dortmund at the end of the season after seven successful years at the Bundesliga club.
9330
Agudelo replaced Morris in the 65th and scored seven minutes later with a low shot from just outside the penalty area, his third international goal and first since March 2011.
9331
Floyd Mayweather is down to within three-and-a-half pounds of the welterweight limit with more than three weeks still to go before he meets Manny Pacquiao in the Fight of the Century.
9332
Frantic search:
The 7.8-magnitude quake struck on Saturday and a 6.7-magnitude aftershock hit yesterday, leaving survivors afraid to return home.
9333
'You could be on top of everything even while lacking sleep - long night shifts, day shifts, I could study for hours when I came home, dinner would be done, the house would be clean - and it became a way to cope with these mental illnesses that I didn't know I had.'
9334
Well, yes and no.
Yes.
 The only downside is that it’s pretty expensive.
Fermented foods, including pickled cabbage, act as a probiotic - encouraging the growth of 'good' bacteria .
9335
Art of the matter: MailOnline stays in the Andaz's quirky One Day Walk room, which features a huge mural by Patrick Vale and Paul Davis .
9336
Augusta's patrons were treated to another glimpse of the new, cuddly Tiger on Wednesday morning as he enjoyed another manly hug with veteran Spaniard Miguel Angel Jimenez.
9337
We have passed many tests recently when we were questioned.
Asked about his frosty relationship with Mourinho, Wenger said: 'I do not want to talk about that.
9338
The duo are likely to cost Celtic around £1.5million, the second double raid on the club after signing Stuart Armstrong and Gary Mackay-Steven .
9339
UK Oil & Gas Investments say they have discovered 100billion barrels worth of oil reserves in the Weald Basin, near Gatwick airport (pictured, the well head at Horse Hill)
9340
Right at home: The puppy felt so at home with his new owners that it fell asleep in the car as Sapphyre made her way home to Tennessee with her family.
9341
Threat:
But some privacy activists questioned the broad language in the order, saying it could have unforeseen impacts.
9342
Police investigating the theft of 12 prize-winning guinea pigs from top breeder Tony Tancock (pictured) have not ruled out - a rival competitor .
9343
A schoolgirl was left stranded at a busy airport after easyJet refused to let her board its plane - because she was carrying two pieces of hand luggage (file picture)
9344
Everton were among Premier League clubs who checked on Club Brugge's 19-year-old forward Obbi Oulare on Sunday.
9345
A dry cleaner in his fifties has been banned from using the Tube during rush hours after targeting a young woman and rubbing his crotch and pot belly on her bottom.
9346
Islamist militants posing as policemen abducted Mr Rodwell from his home in the Philippines by gunpoint on December 5, 2011.
9347
Jamie Redknapp lifts the 2001 FA Cup for Liverpool after the Reds' 2-1 victory over Arsenal as Michael Owen (left-to-right) Sami Hyypia, Robbie Fowler and Sander Westerveld celebrate .
9348
It’s been almost a year to the day since Darrell Clarke cracked in front of the cameras as he explained how Bristol Rovers fell out of the Football League for the first time since 1920.
9349
Before her weight loss, Miss McCormick's partner Dan Dimmock had been terrified his partner would die in her sleep.
'I never thought that would happen.'
9350
Another institution - the University of Technology, Sydney - said it had identified 15 university students guilty of using the MyMaster website after being provided with 94 examples.
9351
In September 2013, Simonsen's Ibrox team-mate Ian Black was handed a 10-game ban - seven of which were suspended - and a £7,500 fine after admitted to placing 160 football bets over a seven-year period.
9352
Arshdeep Kaur, 14, and her mother Shinder, pictured in hospital, were travelling from their home in Punjab, northern India,  when passengers and bus staff sexually assaulted them .
9353
Liverpool target Neto is also wanted by PSG and clubs in Spain as Brendan Rodgers faces stiff competition to land the Fiorentina goalkeeper, according to the Brazilian's agent Stefano Castagna.
9354
Chairman of the Geelong College council, Dr Hugh Seward, told the Geelong Advertiser yesterday the matter was a serious breach of the school's standards, even if the investigation found Mr Barr not to have broken any law.
9355
Retiring AP McCoy has confirmed he will ride to the final race at Sandown on Saturday if he can secure mounts.
Only 500 tickets remain for sale.
9356
Martin Guptill has been recalled to the New Zealand Test squad for their upcoming two-match series against England next month.
9357
Incredible images show handcuffed members from the notorious Barrio 18 gang being marched onto buses taking them from Izalco jail to San Francisco Gotera in an effort to curb gang violence.
9358
2009: Sebastian Vettel (Red Bull) 2010: Jenson Button (McLaren) 2011: Lewis Hamilton (McLaren) 2012: Nico Rosberg (Mercedes) 2013: Fernando Alonso (Ferrari) 2014: Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes)
9359
Striker Jay Hart, 24,  could be heard laughing on the mobile phone footage as he was caught romping with the mystery blonde still in his club T-shirt with his tracksuit bottoms around his legs .
9360
Police in Delaware charged a woman with fatally stabbing her husband in their home after an argument about him cheating on her with own her sister and their nanny's daughter.
9361
For much of the day it looked as if he might have to share top billing with 34-year-old Justin Rose and 45-year-old Ernie Els, as the Englishman and the South African posted scores of 67 to tie Charley Hoffman, an American representative of the rank and file.
9362
This skull of Kenyanthropus platyops was found close to the site of the stone tools in 1999 close to Lake Turkana in Kenya and may be the species responsible for creating the stone flakes that have been discovered .
9363
The original manuscript also reveals a deleted verse, which was crossed out and never recorded, where McLean, now 69, writes about music being 'reborn'.
9364
Two hot cross buns takes up to 50 minutes running and if you have lathered it with butter and jam, it would take 80 minutes of running.
9365
During that incident, a 40-strong team of emergency service personnel and engineers laboured for eight hours to remove her from her bedroom at the housing association home she shared with her mother and stepfather .
9366
Mrs Davidson's body was found in the garden of her home in Alvor (pictured), buried in shallow grave, while Jackson had moved his mistress into the main house .
9367
Djokovic will first have to overcome Croatia's Marin Cilic, who battled to a 6-3 7-6 (7/5) win over Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, while Ferrer edged through via a 6-2 6-7 (3/7) 6-1 victory over Gilles Simon.
9368
Barton (left) is now 25 years old and said it was 'wonderful' to finally meet Buelna (right), who saved his life when Barton was just four hours old and his mother abandoned him behind a dumpster .
9369
A spokesman for Wiltshere Police said: 'A 15-year-old boy, from the Salisbury area, has been given a youth caution following the appearance of a racist tweet aimed at a former Manchester United player placed on social media on the evening of Monday, March 9.'
9370
Asked for the nicest thing she could say about Mrs. Clinton, Parks said 'she's not going at this saying, "Look, I'm a woman, so vote for me."
9371
Hello also makes it easier to block unwanted calls and see which numbers have been blocked from other users (pictured right) in the app's settings menu .
9372
Pep Guardiola said after the game that winning is a matter of life and death at Bayern .
'This is about life or death and I know how very important it was,' he said.
9373
The siblings, both in their twenties, fell seriously ill earlier this month after smoking the drug, a mix of herbs that has been sprayed with a chemical to produce a similar sensation to marijuana.
9374
Newcastle midfielder Rolando Aarons may have played his last game this season after suffering another injury setback.
9375
There are growing concerns that Google's  Waze application poses a danger to police because of its ability to track their locations.
Cop tracker:
9376
Players including Steven Gerrard (pictured) and Everton's Phil Jagielka were  among around a dozen players sponsored by the firm who urged millions of followers to buy the knock-down goods .
9377
Investigators from the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation found footprints on the hood of the Malibu that matched a set found on the trunk and roof of a police car that Brelo had climbed on top of to fire from behind the light bar.
9378
Ms Esteve, who is joint head of foreign modern languages at the school, said: 'Over the years, both pupils and teachers have worked hard to reduce the stress involved in the whole experience and tactics include bringing in drinks, lucky key rings and having a friend in the room.
9379
Anil Saxena, from Mumbai, uses ingenious retouching to create pictures of anything from a woman hanging a zebra's stripes on the line to dry to a pair of hands knitting a green field.
9380
Dr Ros Altmann, a former Treasury adviser who went on to head over-50s group Saga, would take responsibility for protecting people from rip-off pension and mortgage charges.
9381
As Bradford City celebrated promotion from the old English Third Division, a day of joy quickly became one of devastation as a fire ripped through the timber main stand at Valley Parade towards the end of the first half, claiming 56 helpless victims.
9382
Dame Helen Mirren, pictured last week at the premiere of her new film said she was in her prime age-wise in the 'unfortunate' 1970s, which, she says, was a 'horrible' time for women .
Visit site .
Alice + Olivia Dress in Caprise Silk at Bloomingdales (Now $198.75) Visit site .
9383
A former U.S. Marine who lost his right leg and several fingers in an explosion in Afghanistan is making a second attempt to scale Mount Everest to inspire others like him, a year after an avalanche that killed 16 Sherpa guides stopped him at the base camp.
9384
A Perth man has pleaded guilty after downing a bottle of vodka at Auckland Airport and groping the breast of a female passenger on his Qantas flight home.
9385
Arsenal midfielder Santi Cazorla has said he is happy to stay at Arsenal despite interest from Atletico Madrid, although he admits that 'you never know what the future will bring'.
9386
The cell phone ban at the Augusta National Golf Club has forced fans to dust off their often unloved and rarely used old cameras if they want to capture a photo of their heroes like Tiger Woods .
9387
NBA legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar is expected to make a full recovery after undergoing emergency heart surgery at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center on Thursday, April 16.
9388
The spat started after the Respect Party parliamentary candidate for Bradford West seemed to take offence after the brewing firm asked him if he was 'still a thing'.
9389
Alessandra Ambrosio had enjoyed the atmosphere at Coachella festival and shown no symptoms of being unwell but had booked the appointment two weeks ago, a friend told Daily Mail Online .
9390
Eddie Howe raises his arms in triumph after Bournemouth sealed Premier League promotion .
Bournemouth is a good place to bring up a family and he has also made it a good place to play.
9391
John Carver says his Newcastle players have a point to prove to themselves at Liverpool on Monday night.
That hurt me a little bit because I wanted to see that on Sunday.
9392
Wandsworth council has announced that it is set to remove the rule giving priority to pupils' siblings, pictured is Honeywell School which has a catchment area of just 182 metres .
9393
Lydia Kelm, 23 (photographed), was arrested for driving under the influence after she allegedly caused a scene at a McDonald's drive-through in Florida while wearing nothing but a bra and panties .
9394
Steven Gerrard's dream of featuring in the FA Cup final at Wembley on his 35th birthday remains a reality after Liverpool saw off Blackburn Rovers on Wednesday night.
9395
'More than anything, I am going to miss you all,' Holder told the standing-room-only crowd, many of whom embraced him after he concluded his speech.
9396
TOWIE star Bobby Cole Norris has today thanked an anonymous donor who came forward to help his mother, in her fight against leukaemia.
9397
Dr Weinstein, pictured with his wife, was abducted after gunmen tricked their way into his home in Lahore on August 13, 2011 shortly before he was due to return home after seven years working in Pakistan .
9398
I don’t think I’ve had many yellows, if any, this year.
‘It makes a big difference to the game if you can stop the 10 from passing or stop that particular play.
9399
He is the lone officer among the 13 who fired their weapons that night who is charged criminally because prosecutors say he stood on the hood and opened fire four seconds after the other officers had stopped shooting.
9400
Over the course of the week, people in Finland get the most hours sleep - on a Saturday with eight hours and two minutes, on average.
9401
Once the vessel is towed to its location it 'flips' within 20 minutes by pumping water into several ballast tanks, sinking the front section of the vessel under the waves.
9402
Mr Matsuko's robotic clone make is debut at the weekend and has been described as 'unnervingly real' 'It’s unnervingly real,' said one commentator of the programme Matsuko Matsuko, which premiered at the weekend.
9403
Obama grinned and replied, 'Osman thinks I've been talking too long.'
Obama grinned and replied, 'Osman thinks I've been talking too long'
9404
The rescue was made despite numerous reports of violent behaviour from the vessel towards Bob Barker, including that crew had thrown grappling hooks at the ship and tried to ram it on more than one occasion .
9405
WEST Brewing Company opened in March 2006, just eight months after Noah was born.
The WEST Brewing Company opened in March 2006, just eight months after Petra's son, Noah was born.
9406
The Niva (pictured) is a highly capable, ruftytufty 4x4 from Russia — for a fraction of the price of a new Land Rover and it is also available in a compact van format (£10,590, excluding VAT and road tax) GOOD .
9407
The UK clocked up growth of 2.8 per cent in 2014 – the strongest in the Group of Seven industrialised nations and seven times higher than France’s 0.4 per cent.
9408
Reading had to play their FA Cup replay against Bradford in the last round on a Monday when they had played a Championship match two days previously.
9409
It was a torrid night for Ecuele Manga who was all too easily shrugged away from the ball when Ipswich striker Freddie Sears ran on to a long pass from Christophe Berra, took a touch and then finished low under goalkeeper David Marshall to open the scoring after eight minutes.
9410
The dive took place in 2010 at Dean’s Blue Hole in the Bahamas (marked), the deepest so-called ‘blue hole’ in the world with an underwater entrance .
9411
Kimberly Greenberg, 15, disappeared more than a week ago after going for a walk near her Santa Monica home .
9412
‘Reports of psychiatric symptoms including mood swings, hyperactivity, and irrational anger, as well as cognitive impairment are prevalent among those exposed to moulds.
9413
Bouchard refused to shake the hand of Alexandra Dulgheru before Fed Cup match at the weekend .
Bouchard has often been compared to Russian ice queen Maria Sharapova .
9414
The case stems from a Freedom of Information request to Ipsa in 2010 - just a year after the MPs' expenses scandal erupted - asking for three specific receipts submitted by politicians in support of their claims.
9415
The incident took place in Padma Nagar in the city of Bhiwandi, a suburb of Mumbai, police said today.
Police have said they are working to identify and catch the accused.
9416
The alleyway where the horse was kept is at the bottom of a muddy slope, and the other horse was kept chained to the ground on a grassy area nearby.
9417
AS also look ahead to the Champions League quarter-final, while in Italy the focus is on Lazio's win .
9418
MONACO: Subasic 7; Raggi 6 (Berbatov 71), Carvalho 7, Abdennour 7.5, Kurzawa 6.5; Joao Moutinho 7, Fabinho 6, Kondogbia 6.5; Dirar 6.5 (Silva 51, 6), Martial 7 (Matheus Carvalho, 87), Ferreira-Carrasco 7.
9419
Soon it will be decision time for another Luton discovery as 11-year-old Charlie Patino and his parents Julio and Katy weigh up offers from Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham.
9420
'The comfort and safety of our customers and crew is our number one priority and we will not tolerate unruly behaviour at any time.'
9421
Sentenced to 240 months imprisonment.
Sentenced to 240 months imprisonment, later amended to 204 months.
Sentenced to 240 months imprisonment.
9422
Stuart McCall has sent a warning to Bilel Mohsni as he insisted Rangers will need cool heads for the promotion run-in.
‘We just have to draw a line under it.
9423
Over the next three minutes, they were then asked to hit a key every time they thought of the songs - while chewing gum, not chewing gum or tapping their finger.
9424
The German World Cup winner is currently on loan at Inter Milan having joined the Serie A club in January following a tough start to the season at the Emirates, where he scored just three goals in 13 appearances.
9425
The climber was just six years old when his mother died while descending K2, which is regarded as more difficult to reach than the summit of Mount Everest, with dozens dying during attempts to reach the top.
9426
Dr Mark Porter, head of the British Medical Association, the doctors’ union, said that whoever wins the election will inevitably be tempted to bring in charges.
9427
Vincent Viafore (right) from Poughkeepsie, New York, was on the rough Hudson River near Newburgh with Angelika Graswald (left) when he was thrown in on Sunday evening.
9428
The anonymous waitress wrote how Mr Key kept being persistent with his hair-pulling antics, despite being told by his wife Bronagh to stop .
9429
In the end, he was able to book a vacation with stops in Mexico, Nicaragua, Trinidad, St. Lucia, Grenada, Germany, Czech Republic, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Greece, Macedonia, Lithuania, and Finland without having to pay more than a few dollars on any of the flights.
9430
Camoji lets you record a GIF with unique filters and text and share it to your friends on Messenger, where GIFs animate inline in the conversation.
9431
Paul Monk, 54, from Essex, was wanted by Spanish police for questioning over the kidnap and murder of Francis Brennan, whose badly decomposed body washed up on a Costa Blanca beach in March last year.
9432
The Labour leader said a second independence poll 'ain't going to happen' even if he becomes Prime Minister with the support of SNP MPs next month.
9433
ranian patrol vessels fired warning shots across the bridge of the Marshall Islands-flagged cargo vessel the Maersk Tigris Tuesday morning and seized it for trespassing just days after it had 'harassed' another ship .
9434
Accompanied with club mascot Stamford the Lion, the foursome poured water over each other while enjoying a game of kick-ups at their Cobham training ground base.
9435
Aaron Cresswell’s free-kick against Stoke City was one of the finest set-piece goals we’ve seen all season .
4 - In 29 games this season, Bolasie has four goals.
9436
Elena Curtin of Portland was seven-months pregnant when she was charged with second-degree assault after she struck her boyfriend's ex in the head and arm with a crowbar in November 2014.
9437
’ The tribunal found Miss Lokhova to be a 'resilient person' but ruled that harassment by her colleague at Sberbank (pictured), David Longmuir, triggered 'chronic and long-term symptoms' of mental breakdown .
9438
Italian artist Johannes Stoetter has painted two naked women to look like a chameleon .
'My main inspirations are nature, my personal life-philosophy, every-day-life and people themselves.
9439
A nine-year-old girl was also linked to a case of criminal damage while a five-year-old girl was alleged to have committed sexual activity with a child.
9440
On his way to Britain: Zbigniew Huminski (left), 38, has confessed to strangling his nine-year-old victim, identified by her first name of Chloe (right), yesterday afternoon in France ‘while drunk’
9441
Ms Morris has brushed off claims that her partner uses dating site Plenty of Fish to meet more women for casual sex, claiming the two are 'crazy about each other' and that she trusts him 'completely'.
9442
Residents in a Chinese city had a shock when they looked up and saw the sky glowing bright red - like something from a Hollywood disaster movie.
9443
Carlisle United manager Keith Curle has launched a scathing attack on his side following their limp 3-1 defeat away at Accrington Stanley, even suggesting that some players 'don't deserve to be professionals.'
9444
Ibrahimovic, who missed last season's final through injury, opened the scoring from the penalty spot after Sebastien Squillaci was sent off, and doubled the lead just before halftime.
9445
Since suffering from dementia the mother has lived in a care home in Stoke Mandeville (pictured) costing £940 a week .
9446
The National Rifle Association gathered on Saturday to condemn Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton as 'elitists' who will 'dismantle our freedoms and reshape America into an America that you and I will not even recognize'.
9447
Speaking about the incident for the first time, Kim said of Jordan: 'His six-year-old sister had taught him a new dance on the day he died, and he was showing off in his local shop, in high spirits, which was typical of him.'
9448
Edwin 'Jock' Mee, (pictured outside court at an earlier hearing) allegedly targeted 11 cadets as young as 15, during the army interview process .
9449
Ms Scott's sister Kim (right) posted a poem she had written to read out at the wedding between Ms Scott and her partner of five year Aaron Leeson-Woolley, which was scheduled for Saturday .
9450
It may be a far cry from an opening day of an Ashes Test in Sydney or a tour date in St Lucia, but former England bowler Steve Harmison seems to be doing a fine job with Ashington AFC.
9451
Some lawmakers offered amendments they said would toughen the bill's civil liberties provisions, but those were voted down, with other lawmakers saying they would kill the deal and empower those who want to continue NSA phone records collection.
9452
Jockey Aidan Coleman (left) exits the weighing room at Haydock racecourse back in April earlier this year .
'The race should suit this horse.
9453
The news comes as Weinstein's 38-year-old wife of eight years, Georgina Chapman, was pictured for the first time outside their home in New York City since the scandal broke looking downcast and carrying their four-year-old daughter, India.
9454
It has emerged that Cetaphil is responsible for the glowing skin of a host of stars including Britain’s Got Talent judge Amanda Holden (left) and actresses Charlize Theron (right) and Olivia Wilde .
9455
One Yazidi survivor (not pictured) has told how girls as young as ten were dragged away from their families and raped at the hands of ISIS militants .
9456
Jessica Edgeington, 33, a professional skydiver, was killed in a dive on Wednesday in DeLand, Florida, after apparently colliding with another dive mid-air .
9457
At a meeting today, German Chancellor Angela Merkel was expected to press Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to move faster to agree detailed economic reforms crucial to unlock international bailout funds before Athens runs out of cash.
9458
Sky Bet Championship Player of the Year: Patrick Bamford (Middlesbrough) Sky Bet League 1 Player of the Year: Joe Garner (Preston North End) Sky Bet League 2 Player of the Year: Danny Mayor (Bury)
9459
Winds of at least 100km/h lashed parts of the east coast, causing this tree to fall on a car in East Gosford, on the NSW Central Coast, on Monday with a driver and passenger inside.
9460
Son Eli Edwards said his father saw Ms Edwards early on Saturday night at their Grafton home.
He then went back to Lawrence and said he didn't see Ms Edwards there, Eli said.
9461
Phelps has since returned to Baltimore where he has been training with long-time coach Bob Bowman and he swam impressively in a March exhibition race.
9462
Attorneys for a 19-year-old accused of sexually assaulting several girls at his former high school say there is a 'treasure trove' of evidence proving the girls lied about the abuse, but the lawyers want further access to Facebook accounts to prove it.
9463
Newport County have sacked Chris Zebroski after the striker was jailed for four years and four months for robbery, attempted robbery and assault.
9464
Ashton celebrating her 21st birthday, including her sister Ciara (second from left) and friend Bella (right) Ashton, pictured with her mum Suzannah (left) who had breast cancer and a sufferer of Cowden's Syndrome .
9465
Celta Vigo forward Fabian Orellana has been handed a one-match ban by the Spanish football federation following his straight-red card for throwing grass at Barcelona midfielder Sergio Busquets, the club has confirmed on their official website.
9466
As you don't want anything missing, do you?
If you're buying a ticket, please have the right money, 'Cos my tea's going cold and it's simply not funny.'
9467
Mr Barnes said he was 'looking forward' to telling beautician Katie Cutler, who launched the fund, all about his new home .
9468
'We are pleased to announce that Ben Crenshaw has accepted our invitation to join Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player for this year, which we felt was a fitting way to acknowledge the end of Ben's illustrious 44 years of competition at the Masters.
9469
These reforms come amid rising concerns about whooping cough outbreaks that have devastated small communities where many children remain unvaccinated.
9470
Police say a husband shot his wife and another man in the motel room they were sharing before turning the gun on himself early Sunday morning .
9471
Under Louis van Gaal, United have already won more league points than they did last season and there are still five matches left.
Moyes 5/10; Van Gaal 6/10 .
9472
Since taking over from Marc Lievremont, who led France to the World Cup final in 2011, Saint-Andre has failed to impose himself, winning only 15 of his 37 games in charge.
9473
Of last year's other Grand Slam champions Li Na has retired while Maria Sharapova has yet to build on the strong start that she had in Australia.
9474
Four armoured tanks and thousands of soldiers formed part of a graduation ceremony (pictured) held by Jaysh Al-Islam, a militant group that opposes ISIS and the Syrian regime .
9475
A valet parking attendant managed to plough a 200mph supercar through the front of a shop after mistaking the brake for the throttle in a Ferrari 599 GTO worth £300,000.
9476
Despite the militant's vitriol, the most recent local headlines surrounding anti-Muslim prejudice have focused  upon Sydney woman Stacey Eden, 23, standing up for a couple being bullied on the train.
9477
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Wednesday that the EU charges against Gazprom were an unacceptable attempt to retroactively apply the bloc's latest energy rules to earlier contracts.
9478
Van Persie said he was fit to feature in the game against City on Sunday after ankle trouble but Van Gaal has ruled him out.
(Left to right)
9479
The first is the operating truck (shown), from which an operator can use the system and look inside the plane .
9480
Two TSA employees were fired after a male worker performed inappropriate pat downs on male passengers he found attractive (stock image)
9481
MArried father-of-four David Nicholson is accused of sending messages to a prostitute about spanking her when she is dressed up in school uniform using his official school email .
9482
Forensics have used the latest technology to reconstruct the skeletal remains of a woman found near Daytona Beach 25 years ago this week to produce this image.
9483
Maria Kukucova, 25, was arrested in April last year after former partner Andy Bush was found shot to death in his rented holiday villa on the Costa del Sol in southern Spain.
9484
It will come as little consolation to Sergio Aguero that he reached the 100-goal mark faster than any player in Manchester City’s history with his double at Old Trafford.
9485
The Morgan family outside their home in Hastings with dad Craig, mum Bonnie and sons Craig Jr (known as CJ), nine, and Alfie, four.
9486
Di Laurentiis was furious after his team continued their recent slide by losing 1-0 at home to Lazio in the second leg of their Coppa Italia semi-final on Wednesday, going down 2-1 on aggregate.
9487
She repeatedly beat her son before putting his lifeless body in a suitcase and leaving it in woodland behind her sister's home.
Tragic:
9488
'Marilyn Einstein' was created by superimposing a blurry picture of Marilyn Monroe over a picture of Albert Einstein drawn in fine lines.
9489
Blueberries, left, have been linked to a wide range of health benefits including improved heart health, cancer prevention and improved eyesight.
9490
Bill de Blasio has yet to endorse Hillary Clinton as the Democrats' presidential candidate, despite the fact that he was campaign manager of her U.S. Senate bid in 2000 .
9491
In December a small town in Queensland, Australia, experienced a dust storm (pictured) that residents said was unprecedented in magnitude .
9492
Utah has a wealth of state parks, and at under five square miles, Goblin Valley is tiny compared to parks such as the nearby 527 square metre Canyonlands.
9493
After Abraham was taken off stage, the debate continued between remaining candidates Nelson Diaz, Jim Kenney, Doug Oliver, Milton Street and Senator Anthony Williams.
9494
Ipswich boss Mick McCarthy hailed the 'belligerent, stubborn and hard working' qualities of his 'horrible bunch' of players after a determined 1-1 draw at his former club Wolves moved Town closer to securing a place in the SkyBet Championship play-offs.
9495
'I believe we are going to have strong indications of life beyond Earth in the next decade and definitive evidence in the next 10 to 20 years,' said Ellen Stofan, chief scientist for Nasa, (pictured) at a Washington panel discussion .
9496
The video shows how Angelo West, 41, immediately jumps out of the car and shoots Officer John Moynihan, 34, under the eye at close range after the policeman opens the driver-side door.
9497
Former England team director Andy Flower is now technical director of elite coaching at the ECB .
There was a player for all 18 counties present at the T20 Blast launch on Thursday .
9498
The offensive tweets were still live on McIntyre's Twitter feed the day after they were published, prompting angry social media users to accuse SBS of being 'complicit' and labelling Mr Ebeid's tweet a 'token apology.'
9499
Lajahia said one girl ripped an earring out of her ear, and then the girl's mother threw a rock at her ear, leaving a gash that required 12 stitches .
9500
Mr Clarke, who served four years in David Cameron's Cabinet, is known for his outspoken views, and is one of the few remaining Tory cheerleaders for the European Union.
9501
Padraig Harrington hits a tee shot on the fourth hole during the second day of the Masters on Friday .
‘They came, they saw, they bought souvenirs,’ it begins.
9502
Holiday points: 8/10 .
Visit site .
Kim and her sister Khloe visit Mother Armenia Statue in Armenia during a visit that took in many sites .
9503
Mr O’Leary also had to explain his feelings towards the French, telling Le Journal du Dimanche that he ‘despises the French political class’ that ‘destroyed the economy’, but loves France and the French.
9504
Poundbury is Prince Charles' personal 20-year social experiment  which aims to design and build a perfect, utopian idyll.
9505
Brazil icon Ronaldo has claimed he would relish playing alongside his namesake Cristiano Ronaldo if he had the chance to play in the modern era.
9506
But Jonathan's wife, Elizabeth, 58, said: 'My daughters and I will be dealing with the consequences of his crime both emotionally and financially for the rest of our lives.'
9507
Deposed Masters champion Bubba Watson had to settle for an opening-day 70 to sit four shots off Huang Wen-yi's lead at the Shenzhen International.
9508
Although touted as his $10,000 suit, this astronomical price was reportedly a gimmick and the actual value was closer to $2,500, although this would still be around £20,000 by today’s standards.
9509
Footage of Hummelstown police Officer Lisa Mearkle shooting two bullets into David Kassick's back as he lay face down on February 2 that was recorded by her stun gun has not been made public.
9510
Charleston Police Chief Gregg Mullen speaks with local media following death of one of his officers,  Sgt. George Hildebidle, inside his Grand Oaks home on Thursday morning .
9511
Rihanna, Madonna, Beyonce, Usher, Daft Punk, Arcade Fire, Jack White and Kanye West banded together to help launch Jay Z's $20-a-month Tidal streaming service last month, which aims to offer artists a better deal.
9512
Another sailor, Brett Dwyer, who served alongside Stuart took his own life just three months after his best friend.
'They think of him as a number.
9513
'At 598 meters (1,962 ft) below the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana, ROV Hercules encountered a magnificent sperm whale,' 'The whale circled several times and gave our cameras the chance to capture some incredible footage of this beautiful creature.
9514
Manchester City will resist any attempt by Valencia to pull out of a £24million deal for Alvaro Negredo to fund a move for Radamel Falcao.
9515
For a start, at 28 he would appear to be too old for Louis van Gaal, who prefers to work with young talent he can mould into his type of player.
9516
Two sides: A supporter of the Shiite Huthi militia (left) and Yemeni people take part in a demonstration in support of the Saudi-led operations against Houthis, following the Friday prayer in Ibb .
9517
A minute's silence will be held this weekend for the 56 supporters who lost their lives during the Bradford City fire disaster .
9518
NORWICH (4-4-1-1): Ruddy; Whittaker, Martin, Bassong, Olsson; Howson, Tettey, Dorrans, Johnson; Hoolahan (Redmond 56); Jerome (Hooper 88)
9519
Meanwhile, Caykur Rizespor midfielder Ludovic Obraniak was taken to hospital with a suspected heart problem after being substituted after just 30 minutes before being taken for tests.
9520
Crime victims seeking emergency help are waiting up to 50 per cent longer for assistance compared with three years ago with response times increasing by an extra couple of minutes.
9521
After a user reported the picture to Henrico Police, Holmes, who lives in Chesterfield, Virginia, was arrested.
Facebook thugging is a crime.'
9522
Speaking out: Helaman Barlow, who was chief of the bordering towns of Colorado City, Arizona, and Hildale, Utah, said he acted on the orders of the church's leader, Warren Jeffs, out of fear of losing his family .
9523
Alice's brothers all attend St John Fisher's RC Primary School in Middleton (pictured) where she was expecting to attend .
9524
Back east, in Siberia, Masha the bear cub is being hailed as a real life Paddington after being flown business class to a new home in Moscow.
9525
The seals, which are normally prey for great white sharks, have been seen attacking and killing medium-sized blue sharks, devouring their guts before leaving the rest of the carcass.
9526
'He is back to his old self (having struggled for goals earlier this season).
Mignolet has backed Belgium team-mate Origi to be a success at Liverpool when he joins next season .
9527
Motaz Zaid, who is currently studying economics at the University of Greenwich, was with a friend in St Marks Close in Parsons Green, south west London, in the early hours of Friday when the group of thugs targeted them.
9528
And leading jump jockey Sam Twiston-Davies added: 'I only have one race ritual, and that is always to salute a magpie!'
9529
Leza Davies, 33, says her boob job saved her life, after she discovered a cancerous lump when she knocked her breast implant on a door frame .
9530
First-half goals from Carlos Tevez - his 26th of the season in all competitions - and centre-back Leonardo Bonucci pushed Juve 15 points clear of second place with only seven games remaining.
9531
Taken into custody: Police carry a detained man to a waiting police van after a march to City Hall for Freddie Gray, Saturday, April 25, 2015 in Baltimore About 34 were arrested during the protests on Saturday and early Sunday .
9532
Tamale Rocks was performing at Chicago bar, Cigars and Stripes, when she stumbled on the creepy looking glass and filmed a video of the discovery on her smartphone - revealing that opening the door  took her into a closet providing  a clear view of the stall.
9533
Hundreds of Yazidi girls and women, some as young as eight, were kidnapped by ISIS last year, and have since been held as sex slaves in the Islamic State .
9534
Mr Mole, AP McCoy’s mount in the Grade One Celebration Chase at Sandown on Saturday, has been installed as one of three 7-2 co-favourites in the seven-runner line-up.
9535
The vacuum  is powerful enough so suck up spilt breakfast cereal, dust and hair, while its integrated bag dispenser knows when you need to buy new bags .
9536
Statom said she thought it was unfair that anyone had to 'live among the violence' that was ravaging the East Lake Courts community (pictured) where she once walked around to get ice cream, groceries or go to church .
9537
'I don't believe in  cinching in your waist just because, but I do believe in high-waisted, good old fashioned Spanx after having baby,' she said.
9538
Mr Gable said he was determined to capture every stage of production with his Rice Project - from the planting to the harvesting all the way down to the shipping of the food.
9539
Andrews posted a photo of a candle that was seemingly taken at Italian restaurant La Sosta Enoteca in Manhattan Beach, California, on her Instagram page on Thursday.
9540
TV presenter and motorcycle racer Guy Martin is facing a police probe after boasting of reaching speeds of up to 180mph in a 40mph zone while reviewing the new Aston Martin.
9541
Roy Hodgson is a football man and you can tell by his pained expression at the end of every post-match briefing that he would rather not be answering questions about fans’ behaviour.
9542
A University of Mary Washington student has been charged with abduction and murder in the death of his roommate, 20-year-old Grace Rebecca Mann of Falls Church (pictured)
9543
A leading member of the notorious Paedophile Information Exchange, which campaigned to legalise child sex in the 1970s and 80s, has joined the supporters of the media pressure group Hacked Off.
9544
Ms Abravanel, a Miami Herald columnist, posted a series of tweets on Sunday claiming that he had been 'devastated' by unflattering comparisons to Dr Franff on the  Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, according to  sources close to the doctor.
9545
Visit site .
In January, Jourdan Dunn became the first black model to cover British Vogue in 12 years (left), while the last woman of colour before Mrs Kebede to cover Vogue Paris was Rose Cordero in March 2010 (right)
9546
Police were reportedly called to the Union St dairy, in east Christchurch at about 12.30pm, after receiving reports of a masked man demanding cash from the dairy owner's daughter.
9547
The condition makes it difficult for the heart to pump blood around the body due to a narrowed aorta, the main artery that leaves the left side of the heart.
Miss Coyne (with partner Mark) was born with a heart condition known as coarctation of the aorta, which caused her need open heart surgery three times as a baby.
9548
The group have brought together people from all sides of the debate to look into the problem, and is asking as many people as possible to hand data over.
9549
Defence sources said the submarine's weapons and critical elements of its nuclear reactor had been removed before the fire broke out.
Emergency:
9550
Undecided role: 'I've told Hillary that I don't think I'm good [at campaigning] anymore because I'm not mad at anybody.
The Bill effect:
9551
A new documentary is about to blow the lid on the illegal organ trade that is now allegedly worth a staggering US$1 billion a year in China .
9552
They found that in mature orchid flowers, the expression pattern suggests two protein complexes, called the 'L' complex and the 'SP' complex, compete to promote the formation of the lip and standard petals.
9553
Blackpool's main reception at Bloomfield Road was pelted with eggs before their game with Reading . Broken eggs on the floor outside Bloomfield Road .
9554
Ambra Battilana (above) claimed Weinstein stuck his hand under her skirt during a meeting at his office in March .
9555
The tiny copper coin, which is smaller than a penny, dates from the Iron Age almost 2,300 years ago and suggests there were links between the south west of England and the Mediterranean.
9556
The court heard allegations that O'Rorke (pictured) helped Ms Forde commit suicide by helping her buy the drug that killed her.
I don't know ...
9557
Ana Elizondo made headlines in 2012 after she was kidnapped from a parking lot when she was leaving a night class at the University of Texas, Pan American.
9558
The West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit has appealed for help in identifying would-be terrorists after it was revealed there had been a rise in the number Syria-related investigations in  the region.
9559
The court heard Hendy, who played for Blackburn Rover and Manchester City, was seen driving at up to 50mph while drunk after a row with his then girlfriend Sarah Kinder .
9560
Manchester United striker James Wilson has revealed that if he could take one quality from team-mate Wayne Rooney and add it to his own game, it would be the England captain's ability to take free-kicks.
9561
The ultimate goal is to develop panels that generate five watts per square metre (11 square ft).
By comparison, a solar panel generates 150 to 200 watts per square metre .
9562
Captured in a front room in Bahama, North Carolina, the three dogs – a Husky called Sky, a brown and white Springer Spaniel called Sadie and a black and white Springer Spaniel called Marshall – take their positions on their make-shift stage.
9563
Despite the anti-hunting message, one of the models, Lidia Fetisova, was pictured  wearing a fur coat as she hugged the 650kg bear .
Bear hug:
9564
For these so-called 'lonely deaths', families and landlords in Tokyo are increasingly turning to Hirotsugu Masuda and his clean-up crew to salvage apartments where the occupant's body lay undiscovered for days or weeks.
9565
But a poll by the Tory peer Lord Ashcroft shows 36 per cent of voters in Sheffield Hallam are now planning to vote for Mr Clegg's Labour opponent Oliver Coppard - compared with 34 per cent who said they would support the Deputy Prime Minister.
9566
Cook prepares to play a shot during a training session at the Grenada National Stadium in St Georges .
Of course, when you're in form you don't think about these things.
9567
Nicola Sturgeon tonight warned Ed Miliband he will not be able to pass a Labour Budget unless he agrees to SNP demands - despite the Labour leader's claim that he would not do any deals.
9568
Swansea manager Garry Monk insists Newcastle's players will not be affected by any supporters' protests at St James' Park on Saturday.
9569
Housing association tenants paying cheap rent to live in homes worth millions could get the chance to buy them at discounted prices under new right-to-buy plans.
9570
Cook has been granted Moldovan citizenship British Olympic Association plans to fight for them in Rio 2016 .
9571
After the match, Liverpool boss Brendan Rodgers conceded defeat in his quest for the top four.
We have seven games left and we have to see what happens.'
9572
Local media suggest this is a way for villages to save money on the transportation of gas .
Netizens and media suggest this is a way for the locals to save money on transportation.
9573
For Korea's SsangYong is launching a new sports utility vehicle from under £13,000 that promises value for money motoring for drivers who believe in watching their pennies.
9574
David Marshall was on licence for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl when he killed Eni, a 20-year-old student .
We are devastated by her death.
9575
Denied bail: Mr Baggaley was charged with assaulting a police officer, resisting police and escaping custody .
9576
The FA say that the dates of the semi-final were known at the start of the season, while the Premier League point to the Sky fixtures for the weekend having been set last February — a month before the BBC announced their semi-final schedule.
9577
'The clubs have made their feelings known and I'm sure Neil and his colleagues have listened to what their member clubs have said and come back with a pragmatic proposal.
9578
Al-Douri was the King of Clubs in the famous pack of cards the US issued of wanted members of Saddam's regime after its collapse .
9579
'In fact, the size of her belly was quite similar to that of a nine-month pregnant woman, so we didn't have any reason to doubt what she told us.' Dr Sclandan and his colleage Dr Camelia Todica, 43, carried out an operation to remove the tumour.
9580
Queensland resident Roxy Walsh took to her Facebook account after recovering the gold jewellery at the Finns Beach Club in Bali on Tuesday.
9581
The Oscar-winning actress is a special envoy for the United Nations high commissioner for refugees and was awarded an honorary damehood by the Queen for her efforts .
9582
Ricketts hit 12 goals for Bolton Wanderers in his first Premier League season by February 2002 to earn his England debut against Holland that same month, yet the striker did not score for  the rest of the season and never reached double figures for a club in the league again.
9583
Lee Keeley grabbed the unnamed woman and hit her head against a wall before stamping  on her head and chest at Lincoln County Court, after a judge ruled against him in a civil matter.
9584
Tom Croft has received a huge lift at the start of his latest long journey back to fitness by securing a new deal at Leicester.
9585
Many Clouds won the Crabbie's Grand National at Aintree for trainer Oliver Sherwood (centre) and last year's winning jockey Leighton Aspell .
9586
Nearly 100 primary pupils from Lostwithiel School in Cornwall were due to travel 68 miles to visit the mosque in Exeter, Devon (pictured) as part of an RE trip  but 10 pulled out after parents expressed 'grave concerns'
9587
He took three lice, nestled them among the hairs of his calf, rolled up a tight stocking so that the insects were bound to his leg and then left the stocking on and did not bathe for six days.
9588
Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau and her husband Vili Fualaau have spoken to Barbara Walters in an interview that will air on 20/20 on Friday - nearly 20 years after Letourneau's arrest for the relationship .
9589
The incident occurred on Monday as passenger planes from Emirates and Etihad Airways were traveling in opposite directions between the Gulf and the island nation of Seychelles.
9590
Shaun Dryden, prosecuting, said: 'Shelley Williams believed that Kate Temple the defendant had been having some sort of relationship or affair with her partner.
9591
‘I don’t think that is right for him to miss that match as you want all the best players to play in the final.
Whoever wins the league is the best team.
9592
Mrs Swarbrick's husband Alan posted on her Facebook page: ‘This is one of the few messages I have ever posted on facebook but it is by far the hardest I will ever need to.'
9593
This was the sixth camel Hopur had roasted during the festival.
 Delighted by the popularity of his roast, Hopur is to transport 20 more camels the festival in Jining .
9594
Jemima is also concerned about the reproductive rights of her children — she has an 8-year-old step-daughter and a 4-year-old daughter with her husband, lawyer Michael Mosberg.
9595
Daniel, Miliband's eldest son, tells the camera the spartan kitchen – that last month sparked such controversy for Mr Miliband – is the ‘best’ in the £2.7million home .
9596
Manchester City Under 18s manager Jason Wilcox wants to deliver local players to the first team .
To do that is going to be really difficult but that's the challenge.'
9597
Kawhi Leonard matched his career best with 26 points and set a new career-high with seven steals as the San Antonio Spurs rolled past Golden State 107-92 on Sunday, ending the Warriors' 12-game winning streak while extending their own to seven straight.
9598
Gaydos, left in his mug shot, was arrested for evading law enforcement, driving with an invalid license and possessing a prescription painkiller after he was found to be carrying two Percocet pills .
9599
Women who inherit the faulty, or mutated, BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes have a 50 to 80 per cent chance of developing breast cancer during their lifetime.
9600
Shirley Temple became a full-time mother to her children (from left) Susan Agar, whose father was her first husband, and Charles Jr and Lori, by her second husband Charles Black (right) Devoted: Shirley Temple and her second husband Charles Black.
9601
Pregnant women with hyperemesis gravidarum - the severe morning sickness suffered by Kate Middleton - are more likely to have children with language and speech delays, and attention disorders, a study claims .
9602
The 25-year-old suspect, who has been identified as Gul Ahmad Saeed, is alleged to have shot dead his fiancee, her parents and seven of her siblings on Sunday, police have said.
9603
Visit site .
The Spice Girl wore them for a flight to London from LA last week and she also showcased them during an appearance on the Ellen show last week.
9604
Police spokesman Filippo Valdez said: 'The officers had been observing the gang for some time and when they arrested them they recovered a substantial quantity of marijuana and cocaine, as well as weighing scales, guns and ammunition.
9605
Pakistani security personnel escort Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, as he leaves court after a hearing in Islamabad on January 1 .
9606
Conservative donations totalled just over £500,000 in the first week of the campaign, with about a quarter coming from donors with links to hedge funds.
9607
Sudden death:
Two others boys who attended Rockland High School with him in Rockland, Massachusetts, also died in the past six months .
School:
9608
Janet remains baffled by pay-by-phone car parking, what's wrong with cash?
But why do most railway stations have giant flights of steps between platforms and up from the car park?
9609
Everton manager Roberto Martinez has rejected accusations stubbornness prevents him from adapting his tactical approach.
'Every game is different.
9610
Clinical psychologist Ramani Durvasula brings furniture assembly into therapy sessions after so many couples described fighting while putting together IKEA items .
9611
In the latter theory, a team of scientists at the University of Maryland said the impact of Theia with Earth was so violent, the resulting debris cloud mixed thoroughly before settling down and forming the moon.
9612
Real Madrid haven't going tonight (I was about to write a post about how Barcelona were 5-0 up at this point) but James Rodriguez produces a bit of individual magic to opening the scoring.
Carlo Ancelotti has named Martin Odegaard on the Madrd bench, with the 16-year-old set to make his club debut at the Bernabeu, so follow Sportsmail's coverage of all the action here.
9613
Linden Adkins was caught on camera getting out of his minivan and screaming at a motorist at Kent State University in Ohio on Wednesday.
9614
According to the paper, Wanyama said: 'Wenger has been talking about me, and he has let it be known he would like to sign me this summer, . 'Arsenal are a great club and I'd love to play Champions League football as I loved being on that stage with Celtic.
9615
Brought to a halt: Troopers deployed spike strips to stop the motorhome, but the vehicle struck patrol cars as the suspect tried turning around .
9616
Radamel Falcao could still sign permanently for Manchester United after it emerged that chief executive Ed Woodward held talks with Monaco on Sunday over the striker’s future.
9617
London will be treated to an appearance from three Olympic gold medallists this summer when Jessica Ennis-Hill, Mo Farah and Greg Rutherford take part in the Sainsbury’s Anniversary Games.
9618
Veteran AC/DC drummer Phil Rudd arrives at court ahead of changing his plea to guilty on charges of 'threatening to kill' and drug possession .
9619
Oxlade-Chamberlain and Gibbs posed for a picture with Tyga while taking the Rack City artist for a tour of the Emirates Stadium.
9620
Senator Bob Corker (pictured), of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has denied partisan politics in Washington DC could derail America's landmark agreement to curb Iran's nuclear capabilities .
9621
'Getting married is usually the bride and groom's special day, which it was, but it's more Corey's special day because he is such a special boy.
9622
'When United were faced with the Doomsday scenario of being out of the Champions League last summer, they had to blitz the market to sign the likes of Angel di Maria, simply because they had to throw money at the problem they found themselves in.
9623
Sakho played 90 minutes on Saturday as Arsenal surged to an emphatic 4-1 victory over Liverpool in the Premier League, while Gerrard served the first game of his suspension for a straight red card against Manchester United.
9624
Only people who attended the event (attendees list pictured) can see the album, and users can only delete the photos they took themselves.
9625
Male Lusitanian toadfish build nests under rocks during mating season, which runs from May to July and sing to attract female visitors.
9626
'Unlike other tour companies we venture in to remote parts of Sapa where it's not unusual to see bikes carrying livestock like chickens, pigs and goats - it makes really great photographs but it's just a way of life for the locals,' said Thompson.
9627
Even though they took the lead with a well-worked goal by Philippe Coutinho (right) in the 30th minute, Liverpool never gave the impression they would give Steven Gerrard a dream date in the final on his 35th birthday and their lame performance left Rodgers shattered.
9628
Paul Bramley, 28, died when Andreas Lubitz locked the Germanwings flight's captain out of the cockpit before flying the plane into a mountainside, killing all 150 people on board.
9629
Monsignor Seamus Brennan, pastor of the Church of the Immaculate Conception, said in the letter that Catholic teachers should communicate the faith in 'a way that is positive and never hurtful.'
9630
Making themselves at home: Ducks wonder through the corridors in the office after staff helped them across the road on the busy Sutton Coldfield high street.
9631
Eduardo Pagnani, owner of the famous Pizzeria Brandi in Naples, said it was 'blasphemy' to suggest children preferred hamburger .
9632
'After stealing the bus and using a list he found in the bus containing names and directions [to children's houses], Fredricksen attempted to pick one child up at her home and was asking directions to a second child's home,' said the sheriff's office.
9633
Scroll down for video .
During a news conference police announced that a person has been arrested in the case but no details have been released .
9634
Desperate Chicago Cubs fans were forced to pee into plastic cups as lines for the bathroom at Wrigley Field stretched through the concourse and out into the stands on opening day.
9635
Victoria police said that the exact circumstances of how the car went into the lake are yet to be determined .
It’s just completely shocking,' she said.
9636
Mr Schaffner points his skis down the mountain and begins skiing at speed and the dog remains calmly sat on his back .
9637
A nine-year-old girl who plummeted 30ft headfirst down the inside of a hollow tree claims she 'went to heaven and sat in Jesus's lap' while unconscious after the fall.
9638
In a house style that is identical to Google, and operates just like the search engine, users have the option to 'Zlatan Search' or 'I'm feeling Zlatan.'
9639
Mowbray's notes are more detailed, but less colourful than those produced by another BBC commentator, Nick Barnes, who works for the corporation's Radio Newcastle.
9640
Summer Michelle Hansen (above in court during her sentencing on Friday), 32, was sentenced on Friday to three years in state prison and must also register as a sex offender for life .
9641
The development project is set to last nine months and if successful could be rolled out in other towns, although it is still a long way from fruition.
9642
As Professor Tobin says: 'In other mammals, body hair is very important for dispersing odours, such as pheromones - chemicals that can help to attract mates.
9643
Once the screen is enabled and the camera is held in front of the face, the screen automatically unlocks.
The screen wouldn't need to be enabled.
9644
The only place in England’s first Test team yet to be decided, it seems, is between Adil Rashid and James Tredwell for the sole spinner’s slot and Tredwell was the clear winner here, taking three wickets to Rashid’s one.
9645
Aaronessa Keaton of Phoenix, Arizona was eight months pregnant and had marijuana and Benzodiazepines in her system when she collided head-on with a car carrying two children in February 2014, and one of the children later died from their injuries.
9646
'You've watched this baby through this plastic window for ten days and so to finally hold him skin to skin; it's the moment that you've been waiting for,' Ms Gould said.
9647
In December 2014 a group of Chinese travellers scalded an air stewardess with hot water and noodles and then threatened to blow up the plane, after they were told they could not sit together.
9648
Sea Bright fire chief volunteer Chad Murphy wore a camera on his now-charred helmet as he stepped into the furnace in Rumson on Monday.
9649
19-year-old Hattie Gladwell was fitted with an ostomy bag after under-going surgery for ulcerative colitis, now she shares her experience on her blog morethanyourbag.com .
9650
Classicist Professor Mary Beard (pictured), from Newnham College, translated the Latin part of the sign as meaning 'two wheels [cycles] left/abandoned here will be removed'
9651
Little Stella Schaefer is being cared for in prison by Mack, 19, who allegedly murdered her socialite mother Sheila Von Wiese-Mack in a plush Bali hotel last August before stuffing her body in a suitcase, together with her boyfriend Tommy Schaefer, 21.
9652
The very first black James Bond villain, Yaphet Kotto, has said the legendary secret agent role should only ever be portrayed by a white actor and 'political correctness be damned'.
9653
The unhappy diner posted a picture of her unappetising salad to franchise's Facebook account where it was ‘liked’ over 2,000 times before she decided to remove it.
9654
Wiltshire Chief Constable Patrick Geenty said the force was 'concerned' by the findings and would 'learn lessons' from the case.
9655
Mr Verschuuren (pictured with a friend who did not shoot him) is a keen hunter, telling Daily Mail Australia it's 'in me blood' Hospital stint:
9656
Rather than selling this excess electricity to the grid, and potentially having to buy it back at a later date or time, homeowners can use this stored supply to power their home until the sun rises again.
9657
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said the Islamic republic would not sign any final agreement unless 'all economic sanctions are totally lifted on the same day'
9658
Yesterday, Katie and her mother Eve Cope, 60, told of their fury at the police’s response and accused officers of giving a ‘green light’ to shoplifters by merely cautioning the 66-year-old culprit.
9659
His memo came weeks after a scathing inspector general's report found the Drug Enforcement Administration had mishandled allegations that several of its agents went to sex parties with prostitutes.
9660
Billions of pounds of shares in Lloyds bank will be sold off to the public at a discount rate within a year, David Cameron pledged yesterday.
9661
The ex-Real Madrid man couldn't stop his side from slumping to a 1-0 home defeat to DC United last week as Luis Silva struck the only goal of the game at the Orlando Citrus Bowl.
9662
The trial marks the second go-round for the Jacksons, whose previous trial last fall ended in a mistrial when a prosecutor inadvertently referred to the fact that one of the children had died.
9663
Recently, man-made quakes jolted once stable regions in eight states, including parts of Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas .
9664
Fashion blogger Margaret Zhang worked with Hang on the collection as the stylist, and together the pair put on a bold show on Wednesday at Carriageworks in Sydney.
9665
Ansari, part of a young England squad picked with the 2019 World Cup in mind, opens in four-day cricket for his county, but bats in the middle order in limited-overs matches, bowls accurate left-arm spin and is an athletic fielder.
9666
Mother Latoya Tilson (pictured), 33, has been arrested after allegedly firing into a crowd of people outside an apartment complex in a bid to break up a fight - only for the bullet to hit and kill her teenage son .
9667
A 200-year-old book of poetry gifted to George III and letters from Rear Admiral Sir Samuel Hood written during the American War of Independence are among a treasure trove of documents released by royal archive yesterday.
9668
After studying replays on the big screen, referee Tim Wigglesworth showed Hala'ufia a yellow card and then changed it to red after he had seen him shove Pearce's head into the ground.
9669
The breathtaking Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, is the biggest in the Middle East .
9670
Police that Everardo Custodio, 22, was firing into a crowd of people in the Chicago neighborhood Logan Square about 11.50pm Friday when an Uber driver witnessing incident produced his own firearm and shot Custodio multiple times in the legs and lower back .
9671
Ms Schake's efforts to help Mrs Clinton do this could prove tricky - particularly in the wake of the scandal over her new boss's exclusive use of a personal email address during her time as secretary of state .
9672
The nebula and its associated objects are located about 7000 light-years away in the constellation of Serpens (The Serpent).
9673
Xiangyu Ouyang, 26, was on a state-sponsored scholarship from Singapore when authorities say she began dosing the bottles with paraformaldehyde--a potentially deadly form of embalming fluid--starting last September .
9674
Shadow  health secretary Andy Burnham said four million people will be stuck on hospital waiting lists – and a further 20 million unable to get a doctor's appointment within a week if the Tories are re-elected .
9675
A spokesman for Prince Harry said he had wanted to come to Australia on a military exchange for some time, and he was excited for a 'challenging and hectic' schedule.
9676
This is the £1million luxury townhouse underwear tycoon Michelle Mone has put on the market so she can buy her ex-husband out of the 'dream home' they once shared.
9677
2004: UEFA Cup winner (Valencia) 2005: Champions League winner (Liverpool) 2007: Champions League finalist (Liverpool) 2008: Champions League semi (Liverpool) 2010: Europa League semi (Liverpool) 2013: Europa League winner (Chelsea)
9678
Denmark and Brondby defender Daniel Agger has been banned for two games for violent conduct after elbowing Mattias Jorgensen in the head.
9679
Fitness instructor Sarah Watson, 34, claims Rojo and his advisors tried to frame her for blackmail after she enjoyed a brief liaison with the United star following a night out.
9680
Prison officials must treat an inmate's gender identity condition just as they would treat any other medical or mental health condition, according to a Justice Department ruling in the case of transgender inmate Ashley Diamond .
9681
His goal is to see an iceberg ‘in the last phase of its long life,’ observing the changes that occur as it melts into the ocean .
9682
In the hearing, conservative Republican Rep. Louie Gohmert of Texas suggested that if the White House won't build a fence or a wall on America's southern border, strengthening the White House's fence should be an equally bad idea.
9683
It is well-established that the Stamford Bridge academy is one of the best in England and last season saw the Under 21 team claim the Premier League title and the Under 18s win the FA Youth Cup.
9684
Lucy found the Boost trainers, left, fitted well and felt comfortable on a long run, while the Aldi trainers, right, were adequate but felt bulkier and weren't as snug a fit .
9685
Luxury:
Sofa:
Plan:
The luxury interior has been built inside a Boeing 747-8 similar to this one, which can hold up to 600 passengers .
9686
The sister of Real Housewives Of Melbourne's Gina last year relaunched her eponymous jeans label  last year as By Bettina Liano, after going into liquidation in 2013.
9687
The trial heard that Kislitsyn, pictured with a police officer at his trial, claimed it was his duty to eliminate stray dogs from the streets saying they posed a threat to people and needed to be wiped out .
9688
George at Asda has created its 'luxury christening range' just in time for the birth of the royal baby - and say its gowns and rompers, pictured, which cost £15, allow mothers to buy a traditional christening outfit for a fraction of the price .
9689
Mr Gove said the Tories would not cut benefits for the disabled or pensioners – but refused to rule out cuts to child benefit.
What we are going to do.'
9690
‘There are more breasts being shown on a daily basis around the world in swimwear and low-cut dresses than there are from breastfeeding mums,' Miranda Kerr said when she tweeted this photo of herself with baby Flynn .
9691
PKS is a rare chromosomal disorder which affects about 200 people worldwide and 15 those cases are known to be in Australia, according to the Pallister Killian Syndrome Foundation of Australia.
9692
Phil Mickelson lies tied sixth after a 68, one shot ahead of Ernie Els (72), while Tiger Woods shot a commendable 69, his first score in the sixties in 15 rounds in majors, and his first here since 2011.
9693
Reigning Masters champion Bubba Watson, who was also a winner at Augusta in 2012, was joined by his wife Angie and son Caleb for the Par-3 Contest.
9694
Trinity calmly collected towels and reassured her mother that everything would be okay after Mrs Culley's waters broke two weeks ahead of schedule .
9695
Nitrous Oxide, has been nicknamed ‘laughing gas’ due to the euphoric and relaxed feeling people who inhale it can sometimes feel.
9696
Trapped:
She alerted staff at the Snowdome leisure centre, but Henry was trapped for half an hour as workers looked for the key to the machine.
9697
As the manhunt continues, Nelson Williams Sr. of Kankakee, says he is worried that 23-year-old Kamron Taylor, the man convicted of his son Nelson Jr's murder, might attack him.
9698
At her heaviest DeAraugo weighed 127.5 kilos, but  after undergoing dramatic gastric sleeve surgery in May 2012, she lost a staggering 68 kg.
9699
Billy Joe Saunders and Chris Eubank Jnr could rematch in under six weeks after the pair reignited their war of words at a London press conference on Thursday.
9700
Shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna, increasingly tipped as a likely successor to Ed Miliband, said he was opposed to 'taxing for the sake of taxing .
9701
Meaghan Hudson, 25, left those closest to her devastated when she sent text messages in December 2013, saying she was suffering from multiple myeloma, a type of cancer which forms in the bone marrow, and she was unlikely to survive.
9702
Visit site .
Chubbuck first met Brad Pitt when he was working as a promoter for a fast-food restaurant dressed in a chicken suit, and tells a story of a young man so driven by a desire to succeed that he had no life aside from acting.
9703
She used the party's offices in Ashfield for her film business in 2012 - the same offices which have been visited by former Liberal Democrat party president Tim Farron.
9704
'We knew that and his patients knew that and his family knows that.'
He knew it was coming.'
'I don't know why my brother would blame him.
9705
When she received her food from the 16-year-old girl at the drive-through hatch, the woman allegedly threw it back into the window and demanded a new order.
9706
Mr Gilbert joked that the dog had 'unresolved anger issues' after posting a photograph online of his bloodstained hand .
'There are lots of marginal seats.
9707
George Kirby and 91-year-old Doreen Luckie from Eastbourne, East Sussex, will marry after first getting together 27 years ago in 1988.
9708
Kaden Lum was gunned down in Bremerton, Washington, on March 28, in front of his mother by an unidentified suspect who is still on the run.
9709
Bowe Bergdahl, the U.S. Army Sergeant who left his post in Afghanistan and was held by the Taliban for five years was found to have be 'going over to the other side with a deliberate plan,' according to a former military intelligence officer .
9710
Veronica ‘Roni’ Gonzalez (left) and her fiance Ely Alba Gonzalez (right) were returning from their engagement party when they stopped on Interstate 30 to help a group in trouble .
9711
Vassilis is the boatman at the Eagles Palace, a long-established family hotel designed to look a little like one of the many monasteries further along the coast.
9712
Women paid 62p an hour in Mauritius to make ‘feminist’ T-shirts have been beaten by police during protests over pay and conditions at their ‘sweatshop’ factory.
9713
Jordan Spieth has hailed the 'most incredible week' of his life after becoming the second youngest Masters winner of all time and  the first start-to-finish winner at Augusta in 39 years.
9714
So while the fight is still days away, they are already buying these items,' said 50-year-old Carolyn Yap-Tan, who has been selling Pacquiao items online for four years.
9715
Fighting between rival fans forced a Russian Premier League match between Arsenal Tula and Torpedo Moscow to be stopped for seven minutes on Sunday.
9716
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said Thursday that the copter 'apparently literally flew in under the radar,' as concerned lawmakers questioned how it was allowed to happen and why.
9717
Gulnaz said that her decision to marry the rapist was purely based on the fact her daughter, Smile, would have been unable to live a normal life in the Afghan capital without a father.
9718
However, Tina, who spent the day of her 29th birthday in bandages, said the incident has not deterred her from hair extensions again.
Tina spent her 29th birthday in bandages after her hair extension nightmare (left and right)
Despite her grim experience, Miss Campbell said the experience has not put her off.
9719
World Snooker chairman Barry Hearn has rubbished rumours the Betfred World Championship will leave its spiritual home of Sheffield.
9720
Sitting up in his hospital bed, the young boy is seen flanked by two people from the search and rescue team who made the dramatic find on Tuesday, just three kilometres from where he went missing at Lake Eildon National Park, northeast of Melbourne.
9721
The raid, led by Lieutenant Colonel James 'Jimmy' Doolittle, caused negligible material damage to Japan, but helped to boost a wounded nation's morale in the aftermath of Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941.
9722
During the video, the noise made by the phone is responded to with chirps from the ducklings .
'They returned about an hour later and rescued the two remaining baby ducks.'
9723
The photo was shared with her 25,000 followers, which included an abusive commenter known as 'fatalsplash' who was quick to judge and accused Alexis of being a 'gold digger.'
9724
Sales of books about Islam were three times higher in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same time last year, according to the French National Union of Bookshops .
9725
The legendary Manchester United manager was the inaugural winner of the Manager of the Month award when it was introduced in August 1993, at the start of the Premier League's second season.
9726
Amanda Beringer asked her brother Brad Fraser to make a toast at her wedding at Eagle Bay, south of Perth.
Mrs Beringer, 33, said it's what her father would have wanted.
9727
The dual Olympic champion said, following his Sunday night achievement: 'If you had asked me 10 years ago if the only thing that got me on the team was on the relay it would be bitter disappointment, but right now, it is one of the biggest achievements of my life'
9728
Nedved expressed his relief that Juventus avoided Barcelona in the Champions League quarter-finals .
It's great to see him enjoying playing football.
9729
People tend to think that because I have cerebral palsy I cannot do anything and that I am so different from everyone else, when in reality I am pretty much just the same as everyone else,' Dayna says .
9730
Richards admitted that she encouraged Deryl Paul Dedmon (right) to assault Anderson when they arrived in a hotel parking lot, and then yelled a racial slur and encouraged Dedmon to run over Anderson when Dedmon returned to the truck .
9731
He's got a girlfriend.
Mr Boselli revealed he works out two to three times a day and said his best feature is his 'perseverance and inconsistency'.
9732
Two-year-old Darcy Atkinson was covered in bruises and had traces of the stimulant Ritalin in his system when he died on December 7, 2012.
9733
Neil Moore, 28, was on remand at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London for a £1.8million fraud when he emailed wardens posing as a court clerk manager at 'Southwalk Crown Court'.
9734
The map revealed that clusters of racism appeared in areas of the Gulf Coast, Michigan's Upper Peninsula, and a large portion of Ohio.
9735
Jackson was hit by the front wheels of the vehicle backing up and when the front wheels back around, he essentially walked right into the side of the vehicle .
9736
Doris Fuller's daughter Natalie, left with her mom, killed herself last month - and now Fuller has opened up about how Natalie's bipolar disorder and psychosis led to her death .
9737
But total sales of British goods overseas have fallen to the lowest level for nearly five years amid warnings that the strong pound and weak eurozone are acting like a 'straitjacket' on exporters.
9738
Paris-born Kante is a defensive minded player who has impressed for Caen this season and they are willing to sell for around £5million.
9739
Sam Myers with bride Poppy, her mum Sara and grandmother Tina Moore at Chelsea Register Office .
The Moore family experienced tragedy when Poppy's father Dean died young.
9740
In a heartbreaking move, the young boy then proceeds to kiss the lifeless goldfish repeatedly.
He looks at his mum with tears brimming in his eyes, before bursting into tears.
9741
Keeping it in the family: National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, 86, right,  angered daughter Marine, 46, and now wants granddaughter Marion Marechal-Le Pen, 25, to replace him in the regional elections .
9742
Jurors were shown a videotaped police interview with Hubers, in which the woman, then 21, said Poston was 'vain' and she gave him the 'nose job he wanted' by shooting him in the face .
9743
Officers also told an internal report that they gave Scott CPR, but the video only shows them checking his pulse and standing over his body.
9744
They should have known better.
All of a sudden Ashley Young looks brilliant – it wasn't just Sunday, he's been arguably United's best player this season.
9745
The four-time Olympic champion, who left Team Sky after Paris-Roubaix on April 12, will ride for his eponymous team in the May 1 to 3 race, organisers have announced.
9746
Kayla Mooney, who is in her first year teaching science at Danbury High School in Danbury, Connecticut, turned herself into police at 5pm on Tuesday.
9747
Cellino told the Yorkshire Evening Post that majority shareholders Eleonora Sport were considering an offer .
Cellino told the Yorkshire Evening Post: 'There is an offer.
9748
Asif Malik, 31, his partner Sara Kiran, 29, and their four children were caught on CCTV boarding a cross-Channel ferry from Dover earlier this month.
9749
Frankie was the Bridesmaid for many weddings over the years, by 2013 though (left) she had begun to lose weight and wore a size 16 dress for her sister's wedding .
9750
Britt McHenry (left) has been reinstated as an ESPN sports reporter after being filmed attacking tow clerk Gina Michelle (right) for her looks and social status in a video the sparked mass outrage .
9751
We live in the most expensive country in the world.
A luxurious Sydney hotel room will set you back $1126 per night with New York being much more reasonable at $485.
9752
David Letterman stunned his Late Show audience into silence with a joke branded 'disrespectful to women'
It was during a Monday warm up that he made the gag .
9753
Manchester City's captain Vincent Kompany, manager Manuel Pellegrini and head of youth development Patrick Vieira were in attendance to watch the club's Under 18s side fall to a 3-1 defeat by Chelsea in the FA Youth Cup final first-leg.
Chelsea's Jake Clarke Salter (left) slides to block a shot from Manchester City's Manuel Garcia (right) Chelsea forward Dominic Solanke (right) celebrates after scoring his side's third goal against Chelsea .
9754
Since then Claire, 52, and I have had a second child, Poppy, while it has just been announced that 74-year-old Peter and Bella are expecting a sibling for their 20-month-old daughter.
9755
With more than 300,000 views on YouTube since late March, some viewers said they were offended or didn’t find the humour in the show’s over-the-top depiction of Americans on the slopes in Switzerland.
9756
Visit site .
Unfortunately this style is all sold out, but you can get your hands on a similar option at Neiman Marcus by clicking right.
Visit site .
Her actor husband has been seen filming scenes on the streets of New York for his forthcoming film, Money Monster.
9757
A bargain... for a billionaire: Jon Bon Jovi has sold his New York City apartment for $37.5million .
There's almost 3,100 square feet of terrace to breathe in that Manhattan air .
9758
Mrs Garton says she has been left feeling 'sick and scared' after receiving the calls, which have now been reported to the police are investigating an incident of blackmail .
9759
In disturbing images taken at the execution site, the three men are sat with their backs turned away from the gunmen, as a huge crowd - including children - gathered to witness the public killings.
9760
Managers: Roberto Martinez (Everton), Ronald Koeman (Southampton) Head-to-head league record: Everton wins 39, draws 18, Southampton wins 24 .
9761
Aubrey de Grey (pictured) says ageing is a 'disease that can and should be cured'
'I've been ridiculed but finally people are starting to come round to my way of thinking.
9762
FEBRUARY 2014 .
MARCH 2014 .
APRIL 2014 .
Moores (from left to right), Downton and England captain Alastair Cook during the press conference .
9763
'It was so hard to work at school because of the nature of the condition: it can have cognitive impairments, so I'd go from reading nonstop to not being able to listen to a word the teacher was saying.
9764
The Apple Watch 1 will retail from $499 for the cheapest version right up to $24,000 for an 18-carat model .
From $499 right up to $24,000 .
9765
'We got her.
We got her safe.
On Facebook, Allaway wrote on Tuesday thanking everyone for their help in Sarabi's return back home to Fairbanks.
9766
Lee Rigby's fiancée Aimee West (left) has found happiness with a friend of the murdered soldier, Major Paul Draper (right) Major Draper's ex-wife, Jane – whom he left for another woman in 2002 – said she was not surprised by his new relationship.
9767
Found dead: Andrew Getty, the 47-year-old grandson of John Paul Getty once the world’s richest man, was an heir to the vast Getty oil fortune .
9768
The small creatures are easily blown to the shores of Oregon, California and Washington during strong winds this time of year thanks to a blue sail on the tops of their bodies.
Thousands of velella can be seen across Seaside Beach in Oregon after strong winds blew the jellyfish-like creatures onto the shore.
9769
Rev. Jamal Bryant leads a rally outside of the Baltimore Police Department's Western District police station during a march and vigil for Freddie Gray on Tuesday .
9770
Fred Hatch, 76, had bought his wife Enid 50 yellow roses - her favourite flowers - to celebrate their golden wedding anniversary, telling her 'each one is for a year of happiness'.
9771
A five-year-old Palestinian boy pelted the Israeli police with stones as violence erupted during a rally in the northern West Bank .
9772
Eugenie Bouchard's run of poor form continued as the top seed was beaten 6-3, 6-1 by American Lauren Davis in the second round at the Family Circle Cup in Charleston on Wednesday.
9773
It was taken in by a local vet clinic, My Vet Animal Hospital, who shared the story of aptly-named 'Seven' on social media.
9774
'Of course, when I played in Holland, okay, I was looking to play in a bigger team - that's normal,' Koeman said.
Everybody likes the best.
9775
Kerry and Zarif reconvened at the Upper East Side home of Iran's ambassador to the United Nations today after their marathon negotiations in Switzerland with several questions outstanding.
9776
Umbro produced the first-ever West Ham replica kits for sale in the 1960s when the likes of World Cup winners Bobby Moore, Sir Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters famously wore the claret and blue in their 1964 FA Cup and 1965 European Cup Winners' Cup triumphs.
9777
Andrea Atzeni riding Belardo to win The Dubai Dewhurst Stakes at Newmarket racecourse .
Atzeni riding Kingston Hill to win The Ladbrokes St Leger Stakes at Doncaster racecourse .
9778
The Crucible Curse will be one weight on the mind of Mark Selby on Saturday, but the mercurial talents of a debutant capable of ‘absolutely murdering anybody’ will be another altogether.
9779
In a rare foreign policy speech, Labour leader Ed Miliband (pictured above) will today pledge to ‘restore Britain's commitment’ to the European Union and other international groups such as the United Nations .
9780
Today, Mr Cameron stopped for lunch with supporters near Poole in Dorset, while Mr Clegg spent the day campaigning in South West London and Bath.
9781
He said: ‘What HRMA does is to subject the DNA to increasingly high temperatures until the hydrogen bonds break, known as the melting temperature. ‘
9782
San Antonio stretched its streak of double-digit victories to nine with a 110-98 win against Houston on Wednesday, leaving the top three teams in the NBA's Southwest Division separated by just half a game as the regular season enters its last week.
9783
Chinese media said the £3.7million ($5.6million) bridge opened ahead of schedule after construction began in March 2014.
9784
Tattoo-loving soldiers in the U.S. Army will soon be able to get inked on their arms and legs thanks to changing rules, officials announced Wednesday.
9785
His commentary was understated, measured and often extremely funny, and his one-liners were perfectly timed.
'Marvellous...' will forever be linked to the cricket legend.
9786
New York City FC striker David Villa has taken another bite out of the Big Apple scene as he was invited to ring the opening bell for the New York Stock Exchange.
9787
Miss Garrod wore glasses as a young girl (pictured) but had worn contact lenses ever since she was 15 with no problems, until she developed the corneal abrasion that left her partially blind .
9788
Trial findings show Avastin combined with chemotherapy can extend the lives of women with advanced cervical cancer by 26 per cent compared with chemotherapy alone.
9789
The 101-year-old widow, who was never keen on exercise in her youth, now does weights and sit-to-stand exercises several times a week at Southern Cross Care in Merrylands .
9790
Pictured front left: Sawyer Sweeten stands alongside the Everybody Loves Raymond cast (L-R - Brad Garrett, Monica Horan, Madlyn Sweeten, Sawyer Sweeten, Sullivan Sweeten, Ray Romano, Patricia Heaton, Doris Roberts, Peter Boyle)
9791
Sterling has escaped a club punishment after being caught on video inhaling the legal high nitrous oxide, but fresh pictures have emerged of him holding a shisha pipe, this time alongside young team-mate Jordon Ibe.
9792
Husband and wife David and Sandra Greatrex, 53 and 52, from Plymouth, have told their shocking story of harassment, which culminated in David's sister Anne cancelling the couple's wedding using a fake email address just weeks before the big day.
9793
Prince Harry has been in Australia since Monday and spent his first day  paying his respects at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Canberra before reporting for duty.
9794
It's been a busy few weeks for the model mother, who enjoyed a recent stint at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival last weekend.
9795
Brandishing AK47 assault rifles and waving flags carrying the sinister black and white ISIS logo, the photographs showing the jihadi 'Class of 2015' are believed to have been taken in Raqqa city .
9796
Justin Bieber (left) and Lil Wayne enter the ring with Floyd Mayweather before he fought Canelo Alvarez at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas in September 2013 .
9797
The game is changing and Australia have realised that.
Every player, fan and Englishman wants England to win the World Cup and it starts with picking your best team.
9798
But the ball just lacked pace, Cook was through the shot too early, the angle from round the wicket tucked him up and the inside edge came into play.
9799
The Lyttle family has previously said they believe the charge against Barry (centre) should be dropped .
Outside court Patrick said he had made 'a fantastic recovery'.
9800
Listeria concerns have led to thousands of Classic Hummus containers being part of a voluntary recall, Sabra Dipping Co. said Monday .
9801
Earlier this year, Lithuania's Gražina Leščinskiene (pictured) hit local headlines after her son Gabrieliaus was taken into care by Norway's Child Protection Service .
9802
Mr Simpson said there must be a minimum size necessary for supporting intelligent life, based on the range of body sizes of intelligent animals such as apes and humans, found on Earth.
9803
Parents in custody: Ashley Jennifer White (left), 30, and her partner Paul Thomas (right), 32, have been charged with child abuse and neglect in the death of their 5-year-old son, Noah, last month .
9804
Shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna said Nigel Farage had 'a problem with race' following his remarks last about 'fully black' and 'half black' Ukip supporters .
9805
She was my best friend.
Our thoughts are with her friends and family at this sad time.'
Our thoughts are with her family and friends at this sad time.'
9806
The dark web is used as a way of sharing information and trading goods, but the anonymous and encrypted nature of it has attracted large amounts of illegal activity.
9807
Wesley Burton, a father-of-three and popular radio host at KPFA in Berkeley, California, was killed in a hit-and-run in the early hours of Saturday morning as he drove home from work .
9808
'Instead of conceptualising major depression as an emotional disorder, I suggest to re-conceptualise it as some form of an infectious disease.
9809
Malatino and his then-girlfriend, Samantha Scott  of the Snow Kone Joe ice cream truck business were charged in April 2013 after the driver of a Mr. Ding-a-Ling truck said the two had repeatedly harassed and stalked him.
9810
Atletico Madrid striker Mario Mandzukic has denied claims that Real Madrid defender Daniel Carvajal bit him during Tuesday's Champions League quarter-final match.
9811
Cpl. Mark Hoffman with the Dover Police Department told the News Journal that Delaware State Police are planning to file charges over a 19th robbery at Melvin's Auto Service, which reportedly occurred in a part of Dover where jurisdiction is held by state police.
9812
North Korea has conducted three nuclear detonations, the most recent in February 2013.
North Korea has conducted three nuclear detonations, the most recent in February 2013 .
9813
Austin has had an excellent year but England have goal-scorers who are in even better form, or have earned their place in the squad.
9814
May Pat Christie, 51, a managing director at New York City finance firm Angelo Gordon & Co, ditched her $475,000-a-year position this week, a family spokesman confirmed.
9815
The former 800 world title-holder and 2012 Olympic silver medalist won in 2 minutes, 5.05 seconds in Stellenbosch, near Cape Town, making her move on the last corner and pulling away from the field through the final 50 meters.
9816
Several British men linked to ISIS, including Mohammed 'Jihadi John' Emwazi, are known to have been in contact with the group while studying at UK universities.
9817
Cell phone footage captured the moment Brandon Wyne, 17, and his friend Courtney Griffith, 18, were pulled over for a traffic stop that escalated into Wyne being stunned and pepper sprayed .
9818
A couple spent two years battling the council over a £2.20 parking ticket they say blew off their dashboard - and ended up being ordered to pay £400.
9819
President Barack Obama's spokesman, Josh Earnest, refused to give reporters an update on the status of the meetings or scheduling on Wednesday afternoon, saying he would leave those announcements to negotiators .
9820
Miss McVey, who was given a job in the Cabinet by David Cameron last July, said that she is one of a number of women sat around the table who knows how to have her voice heard and shows the party is not solely made up of women in ‘twin-sets and pearls’.
9821
Tim Sherwood has revealed he is still in touch with Tottenham Hotspur chairman Daniel Levy and even thanks the club's board for ending his time at White Hart Lane – as the decision has led to him taking over at Aston Villa.
9822
A woman posted tens of thousands of Tweets supporting ISIS which included pictures of dead bodies and encouraging children to arm themselves with weapons.
9823
'The culture has shifted away from rural areas where most of the halls are, but what we see is that these cultures are foundational to what Texans are and what Texas is,' said Patrick Sparks, board president of Texas Dance Hall Preservation.
9824
Wigan Warriors forward Ben Flower admitted that he regrets his attack on Lance Hohaia in the Super League Grand Final every day.
I was very shocked.
9825
Almeria have named former Barcelona defender Sergi Barjuan (right) as the club's new manager .
Almeria are in the relegation zone after failing to win in seven straight matches.
9826
Morgan Geyser, along with her friend Anissa Weier, 13, are being tried as adults for attempted first-degree intentional homicide in the attack on Payton Leutner, who survived 19 stab wounds in Waukesha in May 2014.
9827
David Cameron has urged Ukip supporters to 'come home' to the Conservatives, but has stopped short of ruling out having to rely on the Eurosceptic party if he falls short of a majority.
9828
Stephen Norton doesn't know whether Private Frederick George Biddulph's mother ever made contact with her son, or his brother Lewis 'Bunny' Biddulph, when they returned to Australia from the war .
9829
Lisa Morgan, 40, altered the Top of the World Roofing site to expose her cheating ex boyfriend, Sean Meade .
I hope she finds happiness in her life.
9830
His mother, Laney Griner from Jacksonville, Florida, set up a GoFundMe page to raise the $75,000 her husband, Justin, needs for the kidney transplant and years of subsequent medications.
9831
A survey of 1,000 British companies revealed almost half are less inclined to recruit an obese applicant, fearing 'they're lazy', and 'unable to fulfil their roles as required', because of their weight .
9832
‘Raheem Sterling is fully entitled to make his own mind up,’ Gary Lineker wrote on Twitter. ‘Make choices that will prove to be right or wrong.
9833
Visit site .
Celebrities including Halle Berry, Gwen Stefani, Cindy Crawford and Naomi Campbell all have figures that wouldn't look out of place on a 25 year old.
9834
An investigation spanning almost three years into the yearly cost of gun violence covered by U.S. taxpayers has determined the figure to be over $229 billion.
9835
Starting XIs from the Champs League quarter-final second leg, April 12, 2005 .
14/15*: 37,237(3rd) *after 16 Milan home games and 14 Inter home games.
9836
Michael Gridley, 26, was jailed for a year after orchestrating a scam to steal £15,000 of goods from the Asda in Basildon, Essex, where he worked .
9837
Green Party leader Natalie Bennett, unveiling her party's manifesto this morning, defended her 'vision of a fair economy'.
9838
But Tory benefits chief Iain Duncan Smith questioned the numbers, which he said were ‘unverified’, and insisted that the best way to help families was to get people into work.
9839
Already, more than 1,750 people have died this year making the perilous sea crossing to try to reach Europe - 30 times higher than the same period in 2014.
9840
Pictured is the very first cell division of Pixie Morley, now aged nine months, taken using the revolutionary EmbryoScope technology .
9841
'There was a window of about 18 months where it was possible to fly these things anywhere and people were excited to see it', the photographer from New Zealand said .
9842
Ms Stratton said she only realised the full extent of the bullying when she saw her daughter being attacked in the playground at Greenacres Primary School (pictured) shortly before the start of the summer holidays .
9843
What could have been: Lorraine Bracco wanted to play Dr. Jennifer Melfi (left) but was originally asked by show creator David Chase to play Carmela Soprano.
9844
The 52-year-old football manager said that he tries his best to separate his professional and his family life.
'I think so.
And I think I am.
9845
In June last year,  Ashton Wood raised $18,000 online so he and 300 people could destroy his car after Jeep refused to pay a full refund for the car or replace the vehicle which he claimed had suffered 21 separate mechanical problems.
9846
The tabloid claims it handed the images to police, who were 'delighted', according to a report today in its sister title The Sunday Mirror, with an apparent source saying it 'blows the case wide open'.
9847
Graham Taylor, Glenn Hoddle, Kevin Keegan, Sven-Goran Eriksson and Steve McClaren have signed a letter addressed to Dyke, the Daily Telegraph reports.
9848
The game was decided by a 130-second burst soon after the half-time break, in which the visitors came from 2-1 down to go 3-2 ahead, with Zlatan Ibrahimovic, predictably, involved in both goals, though not perhaps, in the way that would be expected.
9849
Despite being a keen rugby player, Mr Forrest rarely exercised and lived on an unhealthy diet – and would regularly drink 12 pints of beer followed by shots and sugary alcopops on a night out with friends.
9850
A pilot has blamed one of his passengers for coughing 'incessantly' into his headset during a short flight in the Northern Territory which caused him to forget to put the landing gear down, an air crash report has found.
9851
Reasoning: Virginia’s Portsmouth Public Schools say that their lunches are in compliance with Michelle Obama's federal lunch rules .
9852
Ian Bell, with his 22nd Test century, Joe Root and, thrillingly, the rejuvenated Ben Stokes had restored order in this crucial first Test.
9853
In a full statement to UsWeekly Loeb added: 'Where a man does want to become a father, and wants to impose no obligations on the other party, he should have that corresponding right.'
9854
Tottenham have been encouraged to make a bid for Marseille midfielder Florian Thauvin after the French club decided to listen to offers.
9855
Faris Al-Khori, 62, was found with a hoard of explosive ingredients and recipes for bombs in his flats .
'It has always been done in the open and over a period of time.
9856
ONE TO WATCH: Any of their big three batsmen really, but DE VILLIERS is often hailed as the most innovative batsman in world cricket for his stunning range of shots.
9857
Right to be a woman:  U.S. District Court Judge Jon Tigar in San Francisco ruled that denying sex reassignment surgery to  Michelle-Lael Norsworthy, 51,  pictured last year, violates her constitutional rights .
9858
Manchester United striker Robin van Persie is a target for Serie A sides Juventus and Inter Milan this summer .
9859
Hill said all five of the puppies are healthy and were not injured.
The puppies, which all appear to be a Labrador mix, are in the care of a Marshall High School employee .
9860
A Manchester Airport spokesman said: 'It is the responsibility of an airline's handling agent to notify UK Border Force about arrivals from outside of the UK - not the airport.
9861
Spider crabs are easy to find during their migration as they are usually present in shallow water of two metres or more.
9862
This woman showed off the stretch marks on her leg (left) saying she was proud of them and her body, whilst another shared a snap of the marks on her stomach (right)
9863
'The General': Mohammed Suleman Khan, 43, was sent to prison for four years last April but faces ten more years if he does not pay back £2.2m .
9864
The 23-year-old (left) has been capped at youth level by Spain, having started out at Atletico Madrid .
9865
Chelsea defender Kurt Zouma has revealed he has dreams of winning the Ballon d'Or.
Zouma and his Chelsea team-mates celebrate their 1-0 Premier League victory against United on Saturday .
9866
Ben Flower does not believe he deserved the standing ovation which greeted his return from suspension on Thursday night.
9867
Helping Pitt and Jolie take over the vineyard was Marc Perrin, a famous Provence winemaker who was introduced to the Hollywood stars by friends last year.
9868
French doors at the front of the property were reportedly removed to allow crews to lift the young woman out using the crane.
She’s such a lovely person.’
9869
Meanwhile Rachel, who has had six children between the ages of 18 and 40, said she's noticed a difference in her energy levels since having her youngest child at an older age.
9870
It works with all Android phones that have the latest Google app installed, and it appears to only work when you're signed into your Google account on Chrome - although this hasn't been confirmed.
9871
An unnamed hit band from the 1960s attended the same paedophile brothel as shamed BBC star Jimmy Savile.
Scroll down for video .
9872
Qatar's grip on London tightened this week when it agreed to buy a majority stake in the company behind Claridge’s hotel, pictured .
Investment:
9873
Last month a court ruled Richard Lapointe, a former dishwasher, was deprived of a fair trial for the 1987 killing and on Friday, a judge ordered him to be freed on $25,000 cash bail.
9874
My thoughts with his family & colleagues.'
Murray was feet away from Mr Jack yesterday when he lost his balance while taking pictures of the event .
9875
Darren Bent has scored nine goals in 13 games for Derby since going on loan from Aston Villa in January .
You can’t have enough goalscorers in your building,’ he said.
9876
Mr Cervantes spent eight hours watching the volcano as it threw ash up to 1.8 miles (three kilometres) into the atmosphere before managing to capture the rare picture.
9877
The time is around 9pm on a Thursday and 7,000 people are chanting ‘YES! YES! YES!’ in a pitch-black car park in London’s Docklands.
But yes, I am.
9878
A thug who repeatedly attacked his girlfriend and dragged her by the hair has been spared jail after a judge told him he was 'almost too dangerous' for prison.
9879
Jimmy Butler set a play-off career-high for the second straight game with 31 points as the Chicago Bulls beat the Milwaukee Bucks 91-82 on Monday to take a 2-0 lead in their first-round NBA play-offs series.
9880
The 21-year-old has been linked with Premier League duo Manchester United and Chelsea in some quarters but he says remaining at the Mestalla is his preferred option.
9881
A 24-year-old widow from Virginia has been charged with first-degree murder after police say she killed her former father-in-law because she blamed him for introducing her husband to drugs at a young age and driving him to suicide.
9882
Paul Clement (right) is a leading candidate to replace Steve McClaren at Derby County should he leave .
9883
Hannover fired coach Tayfun Korkut on Monday after a run of 13 games without a win left the club close to the Bundesliga's relegation zone.
9884
Aides say it is part of a deliberate strategy to get the Deputy Prime Minister out of London to meet normal people as they go about their daily lives.
9885
Xue Feng returned to his family in Houston, Texas, on Friday following his release from Beijing's No. 2 Prison .
The foundation has long advocated on Xue's behalf.
9886
Software engineer Scott Carr was looking for a picturesque spot to have photos taken before his wedding when he came across the shoal of fish trying to avoid the sharks (pictured left and right) near a jetty .
9887
In the previous agreement, prosecutors said that while Broadwell was writing her book in 2011, Petraeus gave her eight binders of classified material he had improperly kept from his time as the top military commander in Afghanistan.
9888
Visit site .
Schumer later told People that Kardashian thought it was 'really funny'.
Kim was worried for me, and I think Kanye was just, like, scared that I was doing something.
'That was really funny': Amy chatted to Kim inside and said the TV personality had been worried for her .
9889
A pioneering facial surgeon ‘repeatedly’ punched a patient in the head in an ‘extraordinary’ attempt to correct a fracture caused by an industrial accident, a medical tribunal has heard.
9890
When testing mice whose immune cells lacked the repair enzyme, researchers led by Manfred Kopf, a professor at ETH Zurich, were able to save the immune cells by mixing a high dose of vitamin E into the animals' food.
9891
Pointing the finger: But when her father tells her to clean up her mess, she vehemently refuses with a heated - and rather cute - argument ensuing .
9892
Currently, rugby is mainly played at independent schools rather than state schools where the dominant sport for boys is football.
9893
'After leaving on for 5 minutes then washing off gently with tepid water; the sweet scent of garlic with musty smoked undertones smelt temptingly delicious and only a little lingering' Pants you can pay with .
9894
Ilha de Mana is a 15-minute boat ride from the town of Paraty, and three hours by car or 40 minutes by helicopter from Rio de Janeiro.
9895
The Coast Guard notified Ingraham's son in Missouri, Zakary Ingraham, said the son's wife, Katie Jarrett.
'I lived off the moisture off the fish I caught,' Ingraham said.
9896
Lying abandoned in the Great Smokey Mountains in North Carolina, fans of 1993 film The Fugitive will recognize them as those used by Harrison Ford's character Dr Richard Kimble when he escaped from a prison transport moments before it collided with the onrushing train.
9897
Managing director Chris Brady said the seats were designed to eliminate the sources of discomfort and provide more space for the occupants.
9898
After trying out the lesson plan, Schwartz says she not only learned more about her students, she saw a change in how they interacted with each other.
9899
He fame peaked in the 1950s and 60s, when he dated a string of women and raised hell with Sean Connery,The Guardian reported.
9900
Randy Lerner is expected to make a rare appearance at Aston Villa’s FA Cup semi-final against Liverpool at Wembley in what could be his last match as chairman of the club.
9901
With the manager and stuff things just weren't clicking.
But Ranger wants to start a fresh next season after his one-year deal with Blackpool ends in the summer.
9902
The video ends as the chameleons clamber onto a tree branch and become obscured by leaves .
The video ends as the chameleons clamber onto a tree branch and become obscured by leaves.
9903
She confirmed the circulating coin was released as part of the Royal Australian Mint’s Official Anzac Centenary Coin Program where a collection of commemorative coins capture the history, service and sacrifice of Australians at war.
9904
Unfortunately for the Dortmund goalkeeper the ball rebounded invitingly for Lewandowski to beat Marcel Schmelzer to the ball and head home from 12 yards.
9905
But now multiple sources say that Rob is in a 'dark place,' and his sister Khloe has previously revealed that she believes her brother suffers from social anxiety.
9906
Manchester United target Memphis Depay looks almost certain to leave PSV Eindhoven this summer after technical director Marcel Brands confirmed interest from 'big clubs'.
9907
Katie Hopkins was today branded 'toxic' after saying boats in North Africa should be 'burned' to cut immigration - just hours after up to 900 migrants drowned in the Mediterranean Sea.
9908
The lucky singleton will be given a round-the-world ticket with stops at five different destinations: New York, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Stockholm and Paris.
9909
The Old Bailey heard that Ms Riaz had been involved in a relationship with Chowdhury and Mr Riaz for several weeks before the murder on March 24, 2014.
9910
Henry, who was speaking after Arsenal's goalless draw with Chelsea, also hit out at Olivier Giroud by claiming the Gunners will struggle to win the league if his fellow countryman is to remain as the club's first choice striker.
9911
The dog's owner Michele Etzel told deputies that her son, 36-year-old David Etzel, had been drinking and teasing the dog, prompting the dog to bite Etzel.
9912
Beth O'Rourke (above with husband Brendan and children Courtney and Seamus), 44, has spent the past 7 years fighting stage four biliary cancer and passed away April 16 .
9913
United had lost their last four meetings with City but goals from Ashley Young, Marouane Fellaini, Mata and Chris Smalling gave the Red Devils their biggest derby win for six years.
9914
More men regretted not dating more before they settled down - with 15 per cent admitting this, compared to just 10 per cent of women.
9915
The Boy Scouts' New York chapter said Thursday that it has hired the nation's first openly gay Eagle Scout as a summer camp leader, which is in public contrast to the national scouting organization's ban on openly gay adult members.
9916
Some of the reviews of Elderflower Fields include these rather positive vibes: . "The festival was populated by happy families replete with festival cheer and zillions of small children enjoying their free-range festie-freedom.
9917
While both are in Buckinghamshire, Cournswood House is in the south of the county – in ten acres of secluded woodlands in the picturesque village of North Dean – while Bletchley Park is in the town of Bletchley in the north, 20 miles away.
The pool is in a glasshouse, where vines thrive in the heated environment.
9918
Aaron Cruden is almost certain to miss the World Cup after scans revealed the need for knee surgery .
He will be a loss for the Chiefs and the All Blacks.’
9919
Pulling the man to his feet, the Good Samaritan pushes him up toward the platform edge, where other passengers have gathered to pull both men to safety.
9920
The presence of Blue Origin, LLC, the brainchild of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, barely registers in nearby Van Horn, a way station along Interstate 10, a full decade after he began buying land in one of Texas' largest and most remote counties.
9921
First blood to United after their Under 18s saw off City 1-0 in the 'mini-derby'.
United manager Paul McGuinness saw his side claim victory in the 'mini derby'
9922
Gary Ballance (England and Yorkshire) Gary Ballance began the summer with a century in his first home Test, against Sri Lanka at Lord’s, and followed up with two more against India – at Lord’s and Southampton.
9923
Carl Jenkinson holds off the challenge from Jesus Navas during West Ham's 2-0 defeat by Manchester City .
'I just think early on in the season we were finishing everything.
9924
Marijuana plants and leaves (left) contain high levels of THC, classed as illegal in many countries and states, and hemp contains very little.
9925
Nine sections of the Wall have been found over the last two months along the inner coast of the Yellow River in Gansu province and the Ningxia region, reported the People's Daily online.
9926
Sanders Jr. seems to benefit from his dad's reported $40million worth, and enjoys showing off his luxury clothing items (above) on his social media accounts .
9927
Like passengers, the flight crew can bring their own food on board, but the meals provided to them are the same or variations of the meals provided to passengers in business class.
9928
In Queensland, a four-bedroom property has seen a 45 per cent decrease in its asking price since it was listed for $1.5 million 247 days ago.
9929
Dr Sanjay Gupta (second left), the chief medical correspondent for CNN, was asked by a Nepalese hospital to perform brain surgery on a 15-year-girl who was injured in the earthquake .
9930
Visit site .
As it's pre-fall, it's not yet available in stores but click right to shop Givenchy's current collection at Barneys.
Karen Kane Palmilla Print Maxi Skirt at Zappos .
9931
Pacquiao's trainer, Freddie Roach, believes his man is ready to beat Mayweather in Las Vegas on May 2 .
'Back in 2010, Manny was still growing into a welterweight.
9932
Eden Hazard has admitted an intense campaign with Chelsea may have left him too tired to perform at the best of his ability after he was substituted just 62 minutes into Belgium's win over Israel on Tuesday.
9933
Wayne Rooney scored a spectacular overhead kick as Manchester United beat Manchester City 2-1 in 2011 .
‘It has not been a good season, definitely not a good season,’ he said.
9934
Kurt Ludwigsen is facing 94 sex-related charges .
Nyack was founded in Manhattan in 1882 and the Christian school has another campus in Nyack, New York .
9935
One writer, Ashley Weatherford, who had the treatment hailed its benefits, describing her post-facial confidence as at 'Beyonce levels' and her skin as glowing as Jennifer Lopez's.
9936
'It made me giggle to myself because it's coming up to Easter.'
The shop assistant said it made me 'giggle' when she saw the uncanny resemblance with Easter coming up .
9937
It comes just weeks after a similar  pictured emerged of a family of seven riding on the same motorbike though the city of Junin in Argentina's eastern province of Buenos Aires.
9938
George Osborne said Tories were offering ‘business stability’, while Labour’s pledge to raise the main rate of corporation tax to 21p represented ‘a huge risk to the British economy and to British jobs’.
9939
Five staff members sustained serious injuries after taking a joy ride down 'the Super Slide' at the Sydney Royal Easter Show on Saturday night, despite the slide being closed after heavy rain made it too dangerous.
9940
Barts Health NHS Trust, which runs Whipps Cross and was put into special measures last month over a series of failings, has begun an investigation into the treatment of Mrs Ross.
9941
Judi James, the Body Language analyst, said 'if anyone won this debate it was the women' Sturgeon is a smiling assassin, making her a tricky opponent for Cameron to stand next to.
9942
One of the images released by ISIS shows a group of jihadis removing the boxes of chicken from the lorry and hurling them down the steep side of a road .
9943
Fryberg's son, 15-year-old Jaylen, used the gun to kill four friends and wound another in the cafeteria of the Marysville-Pilchuck High School after inviting them to lunch on October 24, 2014.
9944
Kim Pappas, 25, has been charged with premeditated murder after giving birth in her office toilet then wrapping her baby boy in a plastic bag and secretly putting him in her desk drawer.
9945
Over the pond, New York City FC manager Jason Kreis is finding life increasingly difficult following a patchy start to the season which continued on Thursday night as Philadelphia Union snatched a late draw in a match which had been bossed for long periods by the men in sky blue.
9946
Wozniacki made her French Open debut as a 17-year-old and will be hoping to go further than the quarter-final best she managed in 2010 when the tournament begins on May 25 - she has still never won a grand slam title, although she has reached the US Open final twice.
9947
Ms Jones is encouraging women to revamp their snacking habits by trying the 21 Day Snack Happy challenge: a simply snack on a handful of almonds once a day for 21 days.
If you answered yes go to Question 8. 6.
9948
Speaking at the University of Queensland in Brisbane on Friday night, Justice Diana Bryant told a room full of journalists that surrogacy laws currently in place need a major overhaul to prevent cases of abandonment.
9949
Derry Mathews has won the interim WBA lightweight title after being handed a unanimous points decision over Tony Luis in Liverpool.
9950
U.S. Secret Service parked 'Scooby' in a handicapped space Thursday while Clinton held a top-secret meeting with Democratic Party officials .
9951
Marylin Stoneman had been entrusted with the vulnerable victim's pin number, cheque books and bank cards to manage his financial affairs after he went into care at Cedar House, Rothley.
9952
Talented body-painter Natalie Fletcher has been travelling around the United States painting different people in each town - here she painted two people as a brick wall in Carolina .
9953
Celebrities and music lovers gathered on Friday in the southern California desert for the beginning of the annual Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival - the first big arts and music festival of the summer season.
9954
Frankie Dettori made it six winners in four days as well as three flying dismounts with a treble at Newbury on Saturday centred around a neck success on Charlie Hills-trained Greenham Stakes winner Muhaarar.
9955
Airline Qantas is the first to introduce virtual reality headsets to its passengers (above) to keep them entertained during long flights but the devices could also help combat problems like air sickness and jet lag .
9956
Kilmarnock interim manager Gary Locke has been given the role on a permanent basis after signing a three-year deal.
9957
Every Fabregas touch was booed as he operated in the first half in a deep role alongside Nemanja Matic .
There were a lot of touches and a lot of boos.
9958
The day after submitting her police report, the Italian model attended a Saturday matinee of the Weinstein-produced Broadway play 'Finding Neverland' and even tweeted a photo of her $277, sixth-row orchestra seat.
9959
The trending hashtag appears to be started by 19-year-old Markeece Young from North Carolina who rallied users on Saturday night to make it trend on Sunday following Clinton's announcement that she was running for president.
9960
The Brazilian midfielder was sent off for Internacional after a first-half off-the-ball shove on Ypiranga Erechim striker Otacilio Neto that also saw his opponent sent off for retaliating with an elbow.
9961
Chisnall is second in the Premier League table behind the only unbeaten man in the tournament Michael van Gerwen, who snatched a 7-5 victory against Stephen Bunting for his eighth win in 10.
9962
Bouchard is playing in the Fed Cup World Group play-off against Romania this weekend and faces world No 66 Dulgheru in her first contest.
9963
Becca and Dale Litchfield decided to give up their dream wedding in order to have one last shot at IVF and have since welcomed twins,  Darci-Mai (left) and  Stanley (right)
9964
A restaurant manager has been branded the 'stingiest boss in Europe' for charging a mum 36p to heat up her baby's feeding bottle.
Outrage:
9965
England’s failure to win the first Test and Cook’s failure in both innings leaves the captain in the spotlight.
9966
Cindy Santamaria-Williams, of Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania is covered in bruises and has a broken eye socket after she was allegedly attacked at a movie theater by three teenage girls .
9967
Atletico beat Real to win the season's Super Cup curtain-raiser, knocked them out of the King's Cup and defeated them in both La Liga clashes.
9968
Bulgaria has been named Europe's cheapest destination, with Black Sea resorts like Sunny Beach (pictured) offering the best value in terms of a meal out and other holiday activities .
9969
Famous former pupils of the top school, established in 1509, include the Chancellor, who attended the £32,000-a-year school in the eighties, Mumford and Sons banjo player Winston Marshall and TV presenter Dan Snow.
9970
Floyd Mayweather hits the pads with his uncle Roger during a media workout at his Las Vegas gym .
When I fight one of the biggest fights of all time, I take it to the MGM Grand Garden.'
9971
Smith, who was attending a John Hartson Foundation golf day to help raise money for testicular cancer awareness, said: 'The guys worked with me for four-and-a-half years there and did a great job for the club, and I was hoping they would get a good opportunity.
9972
Benjamin had five cardiac arrests, two emergency bowel operations and was even put into a paralysed state on a ventilator for six days .
9973
The Manchester United striker, currently on loan at Real Madrid, has been offered a lucrative deal by MLS standards which is understood to be worth around £2.8m a year over five years, plus commercial spin-offs.
9974
Instead of local presenters in Sydney and Brisbane Alan Jones' (right) show will be broadcast in the breakfast slot, while Ray Hadley (left) will present mornings - both from their 2GB programs .
9975
Many locals have already had a negative response to the backpacker vans crowding the beachside streets .
'I want them to spend money and go to restaurants.'
9976
After many years of speculation, Bunkie King has finally laid to rest rumours about the nature of relationship with Australian actor Jack Thompson and her older sister, Leona.
9977
Shaved from the front legs back, the dog boasts a voluminous mane around its head and neck and looks somewhat majestic.
9978
Stephen Curry eclipsed his own NBA record for most 3-pointers in a season, scoring 45 points to rally the Golden State Warriors to a 116-105 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers on Thursday night.
9979
James May, 52, revealed he had prematurely celebrated the three-year deal by ordering a rare  £200,000 Ferrari before Clarkson's sacking after an infamous 'fracas' with producer Oisin Tymon.
9980
The rare metal currently sits at the very bottom of the periodic table at the end of a group of elements known as the actinides, which sit in a separate block from the main table.
9981
Despite the lack of goals, Spurs Under 21 boss Ugo Ehiogu will be encouraged by his side's display with USA international DeAndre Yedlin impressing at right-back, especially in the second half with a lively attacking display.
9982
'We would like to thank the Mesquite police officers and witnesses whose heroic efforts saved our son,' Valles mother Olivia Valles said in a statement.
9983
Arsenal goalkeeper David Ospina has a Premier League win ratio of 91.7 per cent - the highest of any player to have made at least 10 appearances.
9984
1860 Munich midfielder Julian Weigl is attracting interest from several European clubs - including Tottenham .
9985
Baby Malachi Elkins was born in the hallways in a Los Angeles courthouse on Thursday morning as his mother, AmberMarie Irving-Elkins, was there to pay a fine.
9986
Mauresmo, who won Wimbledon and the Australian Open titles in 2006, came out as gay at the 1999 Australian Open.
Mauresmo also won the Australian Open in 2006 .
9987
When Prince George was born in July 2013 his birth was first announced in an emailed press release... ...before being displayed on the traditional easel inside the gates of Buckingham Palace .
9988
Martin Allen believes it is important for troops to follow order during this crucial stage of the season.
I passed the packet back to the player and he now took his biscuit.
9989
Pakistan cricket captain Azhar Ali plays a shot during the first One Day International cricket match in Dhaka .
9990
Messi says he is keen to 'get back to my best through hard work, smiling and effort, like I always have' Barca top of the league and his personal goal tally's at 45 from 44 games ahead of PSG on Wednesday .
9991
Jordon Ibe is poised to sign a new five-year contract with Liverpool by the end of the week.
The 19-year-old has agreed terms on a deal which will keep him at Anfield until 2020.
9992
A bullish performance by Exeter tighthead Tomas Francis could trigger a tug-of-war between Stuart Lancaster and Warren Gatland after the 21st 2lb prop helped end Northampton’s three-month unbeaten run in the Aviva Premiership.
9993
Stuart Armstrong admits taking receipt of his first Scottish Premiership league winners’ medal would help finalise the process of feeling like a Celtic player.
9994
This season, he has made just 16 appearances in all competitions, scoring only twice and has been criticised for several underwhelming performances, in particular his showing against League One's Sheffield United in the Capital One Cup semi-final.
9995
French Prime Minister Manuel Valls (left) today revealed that five terrorist attacks have been foiled in France since the Charlie Hebdo massacre in January .
9996
From the heart of Russia: Two companies now offer to write on a woman's cleavage and take a snap .
The English website for Titisign boasts: 'Stave off boredom!
9997
A 160kg man who fell down a  stormwater drain has been rescued by 15 firefighters after an hour of trying to lift him out of the hole.
9998
Nyia Parler, 41, has been hospitalized for undisclosed reasons in Maryland ever since her 21-year-old son was found in a pile of wet leaves in Cobb Creek Park in Philadelphia last Friday.
9999
In a statement, the RFU said: 'In the Aviva Premiership rugby match against Sale Sharks on March 29, Gloucester Rugby breached Aviva Premiership Rugby regulation 3.3(a) by selecting a player (Mariano Galarza) who did not hold effective registration for Gloucester Rugby.
10000
Jihadi John and other ISIS extremists are building a network of 'misfits' around the world who can carry out 'chaotic' terror attacks with little planning, a senior police officer has warned.
10001
A Houston father was upset to learn that his five-year-old daughter was disciplined for wearing her rainbow spaghetti-strap sundress to school, where teachers said that it violated the dress code.
10002
In the new study published April 17 by Science Advances, researchers sequenced the microbiomes of Yanomami people living in a remote Amazon village in Venezuela who had not had previous contact with non-Yanomami.
10003
Liverpool fans are planning a protest a the Hull game over the rising cost of tickets .
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers says he respects the supporters' right to protest .
10004
April 12: 8:39am: Four officers stop and arrest Freddie Gray (pictured right) who ran away from the police in northwest Baltimore after 'making eye contact'.
10005
It means there will be two Costas just a brisk five-minute walk apart, plus the Costa Express at a petrol station between them (file picture)
10006
Jermain Defoe (centre) connects beautifully with a left-footed volley to fire Sunderland into a 1-0 lead against Newcastle United .
Apr 5, 2015:
10007
As well as taking in neglected greyhounds, Mrs Senior also adopts dogs from her local dog pounds and at one stage had 26 dogs living under her roof.
10008
Isco and Alvaro Arbeloa, second-half substitutes during the first leg against Atletico, were present alongside regular first team players Pepe and Sami Khedira, who were on the bench on Tuesday.
10009
'Big clubs talk, but I would like to think the majority of players have enjoyed their season here and would like to have a good crack at the top league.
10010
Pop singer Madonna faced a barrage of criticism from her gay fanbase today after posting this photograph of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and 'thanking' her for her service.
10011
Between 2004 and 2013, the number of passenger vehicle drivers aged 16 to 19 involved in U.S. fatal crashes decreased from 5,724 to 2,568, per 100,000 people.
10012
Demetrious Johnson retained his UFC flyweight champion title on Saturday night, controlling Kyoji Horiguchi for nearly the entire five-round bout before scoring the latest submission win in UFC history - tapping out his opponent with a second left.
10013
World No 1 Novak Djokovic has apologised to the startled ball boy caught in the crossfire of a tirade at his support team during his win over Andy Murray in Sunday's Miami Open final.
I sincerely hope he forgives me.
10014
A schoolgirl was left needing medical treatment at Hounsdown School, pictured, after he water bottle was spiked with hydrochloric acid .
10015
Dr. Anthony J. Moschetto allegedly used drugs, guns and blank prescriptions (pictured) as currency while trying to have the other doctor harmed amid a professional dispute, investigators said .
10016
'If your kid can't get vaccinations; if he goes to school with my kid and I choose not to give my kid vaccinations, I'm putting your kid at risk,' she said.
10017
Annabel is seen here wearing the size three 200cc insert which takes her modest B cup to a C cup, she says she was sorely disappointed with the results of the rice filled insert on this occasion .
10018
The 58-year-old American is the third oldest man in the field in 2015, behind Tom Watson (65) and Ben Crenshaw (63), but showed excellent form to hit his first round in the 60s at Augusta since 2001.
10019
The leading hypothesis from experts who have seen photos of the stone is that the ‘screw' is actually the remains of an ancient sea creature called a crinoid.
10020
Police said the girl, Blanca Cousins (right) had been unhappy and a police source said she locked herself in a bathroom before falling to her death as her parents tried to unlock the door .
10021
Spring is the hardest time to style as the weather is so changeable; dig out last year’s faux fur cropped jacket from your wardrobe and unpick the sleeves to create a gilet to throw on over T-shirts for warm, breezy days.
10022
In the panic, the thieves only managed to steal the equivalent of £278 and fled in a Peugeot 206 car which was parked outside.
Bleeding heavily:
10023
After helping Sale Sharks to a 23-6 victory against Gloucester last Saturday, Danny Cipriani has taken advantage of a rare free weekend from rugby by jetting off to Dubai for a short break.
10024
This image shows Ohio mom Amanda Garber's son, Samuel, with his great-great-grandmother, Helen Willaman - a 101-year difference .
They grow up fast."'
10025
Ms Peters said that while some people thought the ball was 'harmless', the majority of online responders were appalled someone could be ‘irresponsible’ enough to leave a ‘weapon’ like this around .
10026
Britain is likely to face a second election shortly after May 7 because of a knife-edge outcome, political experts have warned.
10027
Without doubt Mercedes, and Hamilton in particular, responded as he initially finished 0.541 seconds quicker than team-mate Nico Rosberg at the end of FP1 when Pirelli's medium-compound tyre was used.
10028
The shadow chancellor said he was 'unequivocal' that he would not allow Nicola Sturgeon's party to dictate a deal at England's expense.
'No way.
10029
Marilyn Cox (right) was fighting to exercise her visitation rights over Jordynn Watson when she and her neighbor Renee Farnsworth were gunned down in a 2003 drive-by shooting outside the very home from which Linda had disappeared three years earlier .
10030
New York Yankees' Chase Headley reacts after hitting a home run during the ninth inning of a baseball game against the Boston Red Sox on Friday which became the longest game in history for both after an outage .
10031
He denies unlawfully wounding Mr Phillips and causing Mrs Phillips grievous bodily harm .
Finlay denies unlawfully wounding Mr Phillips and causing Mrs Phillips grievous bodily harm.
10032
Manager Louis van Gaal said last week he did not expect the striker to be fit enough to return for Sunday's game against Manchester City at Old Trafford, but Van Persie reported good news for United fans on Wednesday.
10033
The Reverend Andrew Dotchin, 58, a well-known local character popular with his parishioners, was celebrating the end of Lent when he was refused entry at The Wine Bar in Ipswich.
10034
Glynis tore up her rulebook too: out went breakfast and she even stopped sipping water in the day, something she once swore by to stay hydrated and stave off hunger .
10035
For example, 70 per cent of seats in the East of England are considered safe, compared to 10 per cent in Scotland, where the SNP is expected to make sweeping gains.
10036
Scroll down for video .
Under the laws, the registered owner of a car has two options: name the driver or say they don't know who was driving.
10037
Gavin Reilly (left) celebrates after forcing an own goal for  QOTS's third to dent Rangers' second place hopes .
Referee Don Robertson remained unmoved.
10038
Bath and North East Somerset Council says the developer has committed a 'breach of planning control' and ordered the building (right) to be bulldozed .
10039
'The first thing I do when I get home, after seeing family, I'm heading straight to the beach, heading straight to the ocean,' Drage said, according to The West Australian.
10040
Hodor hodor hodor.
In collaboration with French scientists in 2007, a group at the University of California revisited the brains of Mr Leborgne and Mr Lelong (another of Mr Broca's patients who could only speak five words) using MRI scans.
10041
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has fanned the flames of Raheem Sterling's contract stand-off with Liverpool by insisting he would sell any player who wanted to leave his club.
10042
Christy, who became famous alongside Cindy Crawford, Naomi Campbell and Linda Evangelista in the era of the supermodels, now runs marathons in aid of Every Mother Counts.
10043
The FBI said Wednesday that Zulkifli bin Hir is dead .
Bin Hir no longer appeared on the Most Wanted Terrorist list on the FBI's website as of Wednesday evening .
10044
- Committed verbally to Oklahoma University at the age of 12.
- Member of the USA team that won a fourth successive Junior Ryder Cup in 2014 at Blairgowrie Golf Club.
10045
Eton College as it is now: Mr Turner says in the modern era the schools do more good than harm .
In 1851 a mutiny was timed at Malborough College to coincide with Guy Fawkes Night.
10046
Currently a child wishing to change gender has to apply to the Family Court for this second stage of treatment after they have first taken puberty blocking hormones.
10047
'I get my share of women writing to me - some real good looking ones, too (if it’s their photographs they’re sending),' Milat wrote to his nephew Alistair Shipsey, who has released a book of his letters .
10048
Richard Rogers, a Hawaii shipwreck chaser, worked with scientists from the Smithsonian Institution to dredge up the findings from the ship owned by King Kamehameha II, aka Liholiho, the second king of Hawaii.
10049
Diagouraga tackled Jeff Hendrick deep in his own half and found Jonathan Douglas who quickly released Judge, before Pritchard went past Richard Keogh and Craig Bryson and bent a right foot shot from the edge of the box past the despairing dive of Grant.
10050
Nine bodies were recovered after a boat carrying more than 150 people capsized off the coast of Libya, the Italian coast guard said.
10051
Glenna was diagnosed with stage III melanoma after she found a golf ball sized lump in her groin just before graduating from college in 2005 .
10052
David Muir's World News Tonight evening newscast has officially overtaken underfire rival NBC's Nightly News in the ratings war for the first time in more than five and a half years .
10053
As so-called short waves collide near the surface they create weak microseismic waves, which combine with long, more powerful waves dragging across the ocean's floor to create the constant hum.
10054
Totally crazy.
That's crazy.
Crazy, crazy.
As the tornado sweeps past Mr Smith says that the truck felt like it was going to lift off the ground .
10055
A spokeswoman for Ms Bines said spots in the program - which involved her taking 'your body, mind and soul to a whole new level of well-being' - have sold out .
10056
Lisa Heath, 45, an assistant at Willowtown Community Primary School, Gwent (pictured), admitted carrying a Class B drug on the premises and has now been suspended from teaching .
10057
Like the five men arrested at the weekend, Mr Thorne was linked with 18-year-old Numan Haider, who was shot dead in September after stabbing two police officers at a Melbourne police station car park.
10058
It may come as a surprise to some - particularly Arsene Wenger and Pep Guardiola - but Jose Mourinho has revealed how Sir Alex Ferguson inspired him to try to be a gracious manager.
10059
Nigel Farage, pictured today giving a speech in Harrogate, said the SNP was 'openly racist', accusing Alex Salmond (right) of fuelling resentment .
10060
Rodrigo de Freitas lake is set to host the Olympic rowing and canoeing events during next year's Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil .
Natural causes?
10061
Polluted: 'Millions of tonnes' of the world's e-waste ends up in Africa where it is dumped in landfills like Agbogbloshie (pictured) in Ghana's capital Accra .
10062
Visit site .
The sexy pencil skirt is by Thomas Wylde and is now sold out, but you can take a look at some of his current line at Farfetch (right).
10063
A cheeky monkey was captured on camera snatching a banana from a female tourist before slapping her GoPro when she got too close.
Slap!
10064
Young men and women at a UNICEF-run refugee camp near Baga Sola in Chad were photographed using pencils and crayons to draw bloody scenes of assault rifle-wielding gunmen carrying out slaughters from the back of pick-up trucks.
10065
The 45-year-old man, who did not want to be identified, underwent the 'world's most complex' face transplant to reconstruct his neck, mouth, tongue and throat.
10066
John Brynarsky was working on a car at Hendrick Luxury Collision Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, when he took of a bumper and found an inscription dedicated to his murdered son .
10067
Izaak Gillen of Oregon City was taken to Randall Children's Hospital on April 6 with the injury and was pronounced dead the next day, said Oregon City Police Sgt. Matthew Paschall.
10068
The 23-year-old was celebrating Tottenham Hotspur team-mate Andros Townsend's equalising goal for England against Italy when a tattoo on his arm was shown across televisions worldwide.
10069
Cryos International, an online sperm bank, is moving its offices from New York to the Central Florida Research Park in Orlando, right next to the University of Central Florida.
10070
Dengue fever can cause severe flu-like illnesses such as a fever, headaches, pain behind the eyes, muscle and joint pains, nausea, swollen glands or a rash.
10071
'Services in and out of Waterloo have been severely affected following an incident in the Surbiton area where a person was struck by a train,' said a Network Rail spokesman.
10072
Captured in the short video, the cafe's owner Mr Yonzon can be seen etching the face of the much-loved Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao, into a cup of coffee.
10073
A man who dresses as the Cookie Monster and greets visitors to Times Square was arrested for allegedly groping a 16-year-old and then freed after police could not be sure it was him.
10074
This is the moment a clumsy baby elephant took a tumble as he rushed to catch up with his mother as she crossed a road.
10075
Delivery driver Kieron Power was pulled over and questioned under anti-terror laws after taking these pictures of police vehicles parked in a bus stop .
10076
While Freeh told police that he has no memory of the crash, it's believed that he fell asleep behind the wheel while going about 60 to 65 mph on Vermont 12 on August 25, 2014.
10077
Millwall: Forde (c); Cummings, Nelson, Beevers, Harding; Upson, Abdou, Williams (Bailey 42), Martin (Gueye 68); O’Brien (Woolford 84), Gregory .
10078
Suge Knight's parents seen leaving the courthouse in Los Angeles on Thursday after a judge ruled that their son will stand trial for murder and attempted murder .
10079
Jennifer Williams, an employee at a flower shop in Jeff Davis County, Georgia, said that she loves gay people but would not help them with flowers for a wedding or commitment ceremony .
10080
David Cameron has revealed eldest daughter Nancy has taken to likening her father to Phil Dunphy (right), the embarrassing dad from US hit sitcom Modern Family .
10081
One in five people have never seen a hedgehog in their gardens, according to a new wildlife survey .
Some 20 per cent of participants had never seen a hedgehog in their garden.
10082
But he could not provide investigators with a list of names.
Billam was sentenced to a 26-week suspended prison sentence after he admitted benefit fraud .
10083
So it was surprising, to say the least, to see that photograph of two Muslim Liverpool supporters praying to Mecca at half-time in an FA Cup match.
10084
Volunteer Fire Chief Gavin Satterfield,  31 (left), and Assistant Fire Chief Billy Getzendaner, 34 (right), are facing charges of tampering with a witness after allegedly telling a sexual assault victim to stay quiet .
10085
Javier Hernandez made it six goals in eight starts as Real Madrid kept up their pursuit of Barcelona at the top of La Liga with a 4-2 win over Celta Vigo.
10086
Joe also charted his own success through a series of selfies before he and Charlotte decided to launch Healthy Selfie.
Harry Kersley, 20, student: .
10087
The 26-year-old was back on royal duties and travelled to Litchfield in Staffordshire where she opened a new classroom at the Maple Hayes School of Dyslexia.
10088
As day two of the Grand National gets underway, thousands of ladies dressed in outrageous or elegant outfits as they compete in the style stakes and take in some high-class racing throughout the day.
10089
The property owner, identified as 64-year-old Caroline Irby, was charged with 10 counts of animal cruelty on Monday and booked into the Coffee County jail on $10,000 bond .
10090
The 44-year-old said she and Alice Arnold returned to the register office where their civil partnership ceremony was held in 2006.
10091
BBC political editor Nick Robinson made a brief return to TV screens last night (pictured), although his voice sounded weak and strained following his cancer surgery .
10092
Kent Sprouse, 42, was sent to death row for a 2002 shootout at a Ferris, Texas, convenience store that killed police Officer Harry Steinfeldt III (right) and customer  Pedro Moreno, whom Sprouse had asked for help repairing his car .
10093
Beyond Ms Hyrnenko, the Figueroa family said that other parties such as utility company Con Edison and the owner of Sushi Park, where Nicholas was eating when he died, bear some responsibility for his death.
10094
Carlton Cole and Nathaniel Clyne were among the Premier League stars to attend a special event to tackle Ebola on Sunday night.
10095
Yesterday a parliamentary committee established by Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras for the first time put an official number on the reparations claim.
10096
In this April 1, 2014 photo, Frank Gehrke, chief of snow surveys for California's Department of Water Resources, crosses a meadow still covered in snow as he returns from conducting the snowpack survey at Echo Summit, California .
10097
Michael Taylor, an attorney for the teen's mother, Jackie Fortin, said if the judge will not lift the temporary custody order, they would like for the teen at least to be able to visit with her mother at the hospital.
10098
Crisp comfort: The 'Crispy Cheese Ravioli' as featured in 'My Love Affair with Food' Ingredients . Method .
Cooking time:  20 minutes .
Method .
10099
St Mary's Ewell Morris men pose for a photograph after performing at Leadenhall Market in the City of London this afternoon .
10100
The leader of right-wing National Front, Marine Le Pen, 46, said being one of the Time 100, shows that her party's brand of political change is getting attention on both sides of the Atlantic .
10101
The manoeuvre is thought to be an old Aboriginal trick to catch an emu - a bird whose meat was highly valued for its oils but who are too fast to catch on foot .
10102
Of the three, Wiggins is yet to show the sort of form this season which suggests he can win Paris-Roubaix, but Kelly is not counting the 2012 Tour de France winner out, saying a Monument win to add to his Tour and world time trial success would elevate Wiggins to 'another level'.
10103
The Tories have pinned much of their election hopes on turning the campaign into a straight choice between Mr Cameron and the Labour leader.
10104
According to his trainer, it took a huge amount of work to get Jake Gyllenhaal ripped for Southpaw, including six months of training before filming started, 2,000 sit ups and six hours of training each day .
10105
The Deputy Prime Minister said he would not allow the Lib Dems to prop David Cameron up in power if he insisted on pushing ahead with his plan to slash £12billion from the benefits bill.
10106
Thousands of Newcastle United supporters stayed away from Sunday’s home match against Spurs in protest at Mike Ashley’s running of the club.
10107
A former mob enforcer in Rhode Island with ties to late New England crime boss Raymond L.S. Patriarca has died in a federal prison in North Carolina.
10108
Anthony Ray Hinton (center) walked free from the Jefferson County Jail in Alabama on Friday morning after 30 years on death row .
The sun do shine.
10109
Mr Farage’s comments triggered a war of words with the patriots group, which immediately posted a message saying: ‘We went to Ukip meeting with members of Kent NF and after the meeting Nigel Farage went on Twitter saying we have far right extremists here...
10110
‘He is a very strong leader.
Mrs James' comments come as Ukip's campaign chief Patrick O'Flynn said the party resembled a 'rugby club on tour'
10111
The Australian blew his side’s chances of beating Arsenal in Saturday’s FA Cup semi-final by spilling Alexis Sanchez’s shot into his own net in extra-time.
10112
Nicklaus was hugely impressed by Spieth's four-shot win over Justin Rose and Phil Mickelson, which saw him set 36 and 54-hole scoring records, equal the 72-hole record set by Tiger Woods in 1997 and also become the first player ever to reach 19 under par at Augusta.
10113
Rangers boss Stuart McCall  ordered his side to end their stuttering away form at Dumbarton on Saturday to ramp up the pressure on play-off rivals Hibs.
10114
Taliban militants opened the offensive today with a failed rocket attack on a US base in Bagram air base, situated close to the Afghan capital city of Kabul.
10115
Scientists at UCLA found the lateral orbitofrontal cortex and the posterior cigulate cortex were thinner in those women taking the contraception.
10116
Dortmund have scored a disappointing 34 goals in 27 games in the Bundesliga and Gabon international Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang leads the goal scoring charts with 18 in all competitions.
10117
The former secretary of state's campaign-in-waiting has reportedly signed a lease for two floors of office space in Brooklyn, New York – the epicenter of hipster culture .
10118
One Syrian opposition activist has said despite Arwami’s standing and his participation in protests against the Assad regime in London in 2012 (pictured) the imam was an unlikely target for assassination .
10119
Scientists have found traces of compounds found in camomile and yarrow in the hardened plaque of 50,000 year old Neanderthal teeth found in El Sidron, Spain.
10120
Relatives of the victims of a South Korean ferry sinking that killed more than 300 people a year ago have held a rally demanding the government salvage the vessel.
10121
As I was going through the gears the red car passed me.
Mr Townley posted his dramatic footage on Facebook where scores of people condemned the caravan driver .
10122
Literary critic Craig Brown, left, was nominated this time as Arts Reviewer of the Year and reporter Ben Ellery, right, earned a Scoop of the Year nomination .
10123
Mayweather shared a video flaunting his diamond-encrusted watches, fleet of super-cars and luxurious properties with his Instagram followers .
10124
Above, a view of the mile-wide tornado that was spotted over Rio Vista, Texas Sunday night and described as slow moving and 'extremely dangerous'
10125
Today Travis (pictured in a taxi outside court) was awarded more than £4,000 for taxi fares to and from court, as well as a further £630 for hotel stays while he was on trial .
10126
This will be a heavyweight contest that could decide the game.
England international Fabian Delph (left) and Jordan Henderson are set for a midfield battle at Wembley .
10127
Purvi Patel, pictured, was jailed for 20 years for feticide and neglect of a dependent following a hearing at South Bend, Indiana .
10128
At a recent Premier League meeting clubs agreed to adopt the policy, which sees in-house staff paid £7.85 an hour (or £9.15 an hour should they be based in London), from the 2016-17 season.
10129
The 'cell phone policy' says the increased use of mobile phones in schools is a 'distraction' to teaching, and could be used to 'take inappropriate pictures and video of students and staff for sharing.. across the internet'
10130
After consuming a large amount of beer in the staff room at Kandersteg International Scout Centre he returned to his room at around 2.45am in a 'very drunk state'.
10131
Wasps director of rugby Dai Young said: 'If England are going to go out and win the Rugby World Cup, he’s the type of player you’ve got to have in the team so I’d certainly like to think he’s pushing for a place in the squad.'
10132
'The so called 'absconder policy' was introduced as a knee jerk reaction to negative press reports without adequate consideration for either existing policies, or its impact on the prisoners whose progression to open conditions was abruptly prevented.'
10133
Police went to a home on March 26 in Balch Springs, Texas, to do a welfare check and were told by residents that a two-year-old child had died and a 'rising ceremony' performed, according to CBS.
10134
Labour leader Ed Miliband, campaigning in Bristol this morning, said one of the reasons behind the problems in A&E was that the coalition policy has led to 600 fewer GP surgeries staying open at evenings and weekends.
10135
This happens when one star happens to pass in front of another, and its gravity acts as a lens to magnify and brighten the more distant star's light.
10136
Authorities are searching a Florida river for a nine-year-old boy who went missing after a boat carrying him and a family friend was hit with a wake causing the boat to capsize.
10137
The ECB are not living up to their promise of fresh transparency under a new regime by keeping secret the job description for the director of England cricket.
10138
There are two types of auroras on Earth - the Aurora Borealis in the Northern Hemisphere, known as the Northern Lights, and the Aurora Australis in the Southern Hemisphere, known as the Southern Lights.
10139
The news comes after MailOnline reported on the case of Alison Hall, 48, who almost choked to death when she nearly swallowed a false nail that had shot out of her inhaler when she took a breath.
10140
The youngest major presidential candidate this election season, 43-year-old Rubio is presenting himself as a fresh face with forward-thinking ideas compared to candidates of 'yesterday' - a not-so-subtle attack on 67-year-old Democrat Hillary Clinton.
10141
A Czech politician says he has created an entirely new country by claiming three-square-mile patch of land along the Croatia-Serbia border that neither country claims is theirs.
10142
The ComRes poll shows Conservative voters are the most likely to think it is important to get to know the wives and families of the party leaders – 32 per cent -- compared to a quarter – 25 per cent -- of Labour voters.
10143
The teacher, seen here after the second axe blow shattered the cinder block, seems to be hurting from the bed of nails he was holding to his chest - rather than to hit to his groin .
10144
Her daughter, Jessica Mejia, was killed in the early hours of December 31, 2009 when her ex-boyfriend, Nicholas Sord, lost control of the car they were traveling in and smashed into a pole.
10145
Egypt's former president Mohammed Morsi has been sentenced to 20 years for ordering the arrest and torture of protesters in 2012.
Jailed:
10146
M&S stars Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and David Gandy have also helped increase sales with their own ranges - with Miss Huntington-Whiteley's bras proving particularly successful in the last quarter .
10147
Becky Schoenig of St. Louis, Missouri was shocked when she realized her brand new 2015 Ford Fusion had been stolen from her driveway on Monday night, just a little over a month after she took the car home.
This b***h is pimpin now!!!'
10148
The father of Dave Brockie (pictured left and right on stage), the late frontman of the eccentric heavy metal band GWAR, has sued the group claiming they have stolen his son’s ashes, guitars and artwork .
10149
Atletico Madrid midfielder Mario Suarez (right) will miss next week's second leg against Real Madrid .
Nothing more, we all make mistakes.
10150
Taylor received a 12-month jail sentence suspended for two years, with 150 hours of unpaid work and a 20-day rehabilitation requirement .
10151
The dinosaurs left their mark while walking along the shoreline of a large lake.
The dinosaurs left their mark (pictured) while walking along the shoreline of a large lake.
10152
Mussi, a second-generation Delta farmer, said Central Valley farmers have long known that in dry years they would get little or no water from state and federal water projects and would need to rely heavily on groundwater .
10153
In his first public comments on his wife's 2016 presidential bid, Bill Clinton, pictured here in 2004 with Hillary Clinton, said 'I'm proud of her' while on a visit to Oklahoma City .
10154
Lance Corporal Leonard Keysor, 30, received a Victoria Cross for his 48-hour effort that saw him lob live, palm-sized iron grenades from the trenches of Lone Pine to save the lives of his comrades.
10155
Just days after Dallas Cowboys' Greg Hardy was suspended from 10 NFL games he appeared to get into trouble when he drove his luxury car through flash floods in Dallas, getting stuck when the car could not make it through the rising, fast flowing waters.
10156
Cavani (left) has admitted that he is concerned about playing out of position under Laurent Blanc (right) Cavani's agent Claudio Anelucci says his client is most likely to move to England or Spain this summer .
10157
Speaking to Ana Romero, a former royal correspondent and the author of a new book called Final De Partida [End Game], Ms Sayn-Wittgenstein claimed that Juan-Carlos had contemplated divorcing his wife Queen Sofia in order to marry her.
10158
City's list featured six homegrown players this term including Lampard, who will join sister club New York City FC in July and Milner who is still pondering his future.
10159
Online fitness company Protein World caused a Twitter storm recently with its London Underground poster of a genetically-blessed model in a small yellow bikini, asking: 'Are you beach body ready?'
10160
From Shailene Woodley colouring her lips with roasted beetroot to Kate Moss submerging her face in cucumber water, it seems the stars' best kept beauty hacks start in the kitchen.
10161
Players including Vincent Kompany and Gael Clichy helped youngsters add the finishing touches to the design during a street party on Wednesday - alongside women's players Lucy Bronze and Emma Lipman and Mathias Bossaerts and Kelechi Iheanacho from the Elite Development Squad.
10162
A host of Argentine stars including Angel di Maria (left) and Willy Caballero (right) dined out together at San Carlo restaurant on Sunday along with Manchester United goalkeeper Victor Valdes .
10163
Perry Clawson, a former Army colonel, was pictured Friday sitting outside the University of Florida's Zeta Beta Tau frat house in Gainesville, waving a Stars and Stripes of his own.
10164
Samples of the deep sea fish, known to swim vertically as well self-amputate its own tail, were sent to see Otago Museum for testing .
10165
Could do nothing to stop Philippe Coutinho's winner but did well to deny Brazilian in the first half and even had a pop at goal himself with a brilliant turn in stoppage time.
Gestede 6.5 (for Conway 64)
10166
Ospina came in for the next game against Hull in the FA Cup third round and stayed in goal when Arsenal played Stoke in the Premier League a week later.
10167
Patrick O'Flynn, who is also the party's economics spokesman, said Ukip needs to 'work harder' as it is 'lagging' behind with female voters.
10168
Lt. Stryde Jones of the Lowndes County Sheriff’s Office said that the other teachers were not aware of what was going on and that rumors started among the students .
10169
A newborn girl was found inside the trash outside the Delta Gamma Theta sorority house, pictured, at Muskingum University last Wednesday.
10170
Rarely-seen photos of Captain Robert Scott’s expedition to the South Pole and an American Civil War flag are among the items expected to fetch tens of thousands of pounds at a unique auction in London later this month.
10171
Curry (centre) hit seven 3s as Golden State completed a fourth-quarter comeback to lead play-off series 3-0 .
Cleveland can complete the sweep Sunday in Boston.
10172
Dylan Miller, a senior at Juniata College, in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, studying English and philosophy, decided for his senior project that he would live in a hut deep in the woods about a half-hour's walk from campus to learn about living with only the necessities.
10173
Al Horford and DeMarre Carroll scored 20 points each to help the Atlanta Hawks match a franchise record with their 57th win, beating the Brooklyn Nets 131-99 on Saturday night.
10174
The death of a 20-month-old toddler is being treated as suspicious after he was admitted struggling to breathe .
10175
Miss Grogan (above) initially complained to the practice manager, Diane Talbot – Mr Cromie’s wife – and became frustrated when no action was taken .
10176
Richard III's skeleton found under a car park in Leicester was found to a distinctive scoliosisof the spine .
10177
Former Real Madrid ace Kaka and Canadian international Cyle Larin proved the difference as Orlando City earned all three points against Portland Timbers at a sold-out Providence Park.
10178
Lidia Quilligana was arrested in Danbury, Connecticut last month after police viewed a video that allegedly showed her choking and beating a 3-year-old girl, and then burning her legs, arms and hands on a hot stove as she screamed out in pain.
10179
Mr Krauss said they didn't consider the winnings as money but the chance for the start of a new life together in their own home, .
10180
Utility companies, including Thames Water, discovered the fatberg when local residents and businesses on Draycott Avenue and Walton Street started to complain about the rancid smell coming from the sewer.
10181
Fulham goalkeeper Marcus Bettinelli has caught the eye of Chelsea and Jose Mourinho who watched him play in a 1-1 draw against Rotherham .
10182
The time change affects all states including the nation's capital Canberra (pictured) The time change affects all states except Queensland (pictured), the Northern Territory and Western Australia, where daylight saving is not observed .
10183
Renowned for being one of the world's best young hip-hop dancers, Paisley wasted no time in showing off her trademark moves while Sturridge attempted a few of his own including his signature goal celebration moves.
10184
Janet Street-Porter (right) asks how Nicola Sturgeon (left) has become 'a person so perfect that a mere joke about her appearance means (according to her fans) I can no longer be considered a feminist?'
10185
Midfielders Franck Ribery (ankle), Arjen Robben (stomach) and Javi Martinez (knee), and defender David Alaba (knee) are all out, coach Pep Guardiola added on Friday.
10186
A young man enjoys the sun in St James's Park in central London as people in the capital make the most of the warm weather .
Day at the beach:
10187
Caught on camera: Lori Smith filmed her pooch Boomer being repeatedly hit as she lay with her head resting on the ledge of her electronic dog door .
10188
Former world champion Ken Doherty is on the brink of exiting the Betfred World Snooker Championships in the final qualifying round.
10189
Accompanied by a hunting partner, the lion leaps on to the hippo in a ferocious display of power and tries to take a bite out if its back - but ends up being chased away by the infant's angry mother.
10190
It's not cheap at £7million but whoever buys this exclusive Georgian mansion is buying more than just a home - they're buying the exact same view depicted in John Constable's £23million painting Salisbury Cathedral From The Meadows.
10191
A lawyer for Roberts said United gave him no detailed explanation on Saturday why he wasn't allowed on the plane, saying instead the airline would be sending Roberts a letter within two weeks stating why they wouldn't let him fly on their aircraft.
10192
The most important thing is we get good value.’
Pardew has not had to 'lean on' Shola Ameobi, Jordon Mutch and Lee Chung-yong since their arrival .
10193
Craig, 54, is on hormone therapy for prostate cancer, which starves cancer cells by reducing levels of testosterone in the body - and has the side-effect of hot flushes.
10194
And a 624-calorie Brie and Bacon Panini from Caffè Nero comes in at more than 100 calories higher than a 518-calorie McDonald’s Quarter Pounder with Cheese.
10195
Festive invention:
Blind children in Birmingham, Alabama, have celebrated Easter early by hunting for plastic eggs that let of a beeping sound.
10196
Prosecutors said Spears loaded the hospitalized boy's feeding tube with a lethal amount of salt and kept on blogging .
the verdict.
10197
Tiger Woods is in it to win it — but it would be a ‘disaster for everyone’ if he limps out of the Masters this week.
It’s a buzz.
10198
Lynn and husband Liam tried for a baby for three years so when she fell pregnant, she didn't want to take any risks so stopped taking pain relief for her scoliosis and hip dysplasia symptoms .
10199
Following the initial complaint of food poisoning, 14 visits by environmental health officers were made to the pub and 13 of those were non-compliant with food hygiene regulations .
10200
Nick Scholfield has been lined up to ride Jim Culloty’s Spring Heeled in the Crabbie’s Grand National at Aintree on Saturday week.
10201
Spieth rounded off a record-breaking week by winning the first major of his career with a four-shot victory in the Masters at Augusta.
10202
The 33-year-old patrolman, who is white, initially defended his actions, saying he feared for his life after Scott wrestled his Taser gun from him during a scuffle when he pulled him over for a broken brake light on Saturday morning.
10203
Tory London Mayor Boris Johnson warned against allowing Nicola Sturgeon's SNP to dominate the government of the UK 'an entity that they are sworn to destroy'
10204
During the time they lived there, Love was pregnant with Frances Bean Cobain, while Cobain was focusing on song writing and his artwork, much of which was created in the apartment.
10205
Cutting down on emissions and pollution is a mainstay of the Green Party's manifesto, however almost half of their supporters (49 per cent) are likely to travel on long haul destinations, preferring an aisle seat on the plane.
10206
The Baggies star had named Kane as Player of the Year and Chelsea's Eden Hazard as Young Player of the Year before later realising his mistake and tweeting:  ‘I get it wrong Hazard player of the year And young player Kane!!’
10207
Researchers have found that female chimps are more likely to use the tools to help them hunt for food while males tend to prefer capturing prey with their hands.
10208
Kim Ki-jong is pictured being arrested at the site where U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Mark Lippert was attacked on March 5, 2015 in Seoul, South Korea .
10209
Whatever the answer, it will make for compelling viewing over the next few days as the man who won 11 of his 14 majors ranked No 1 in the world tries to win one ranked 111th.
10210
'Aussie just loved Kai.'
Ms Addicoat said Aussie – who the kids brought home on Australia Day this year - was always protective of the children.
10211
A third of adults shun the storage possibilities of the internet and still keep their most important papers in a shoebox,the poll by online file-sharing service Lifetile found .
10212
The advertisement outlined how the successful applicant must enjoy the outdoors, but is also 'also a princess when need to be'.
10213
On Friday it will be 100 years since 50,000 gathered at the home of Manchester United for the last football match to be played in England for four, long years.
10214
Javier Hernandez (left) scores to send Real Madrid into the Champions League semi-final .
Hernandez struck in the 88th minute to send Madrid through and fierce rivals Atletico Madrid out .
10215
'It is difficult to describe the feeling of shame, the fear of embarrassment that you have growing up with a hoarder,' Geoff, who is still based nearby in Omaha, tells DailyMail.com.
10216
Still, he appeared to strain and wince as he joined his fiancee Megan Wollover and their daughter Maven as they did some shopping in New Jersey.
10217
'I’m not going to say to you I am (the new Vieira), obviously I want to be but I think it’s down to the performance I put in every week so I’m just trying to give me best every game so hopefully I can do that in the long term,' Coquelin told BT Sport.
10218
The fatally-wounded man, who is being held by his neck and back by the deputies (pictured), says: 'Oh my god, he shot me!
I still can't believe it happened.'
10219
Having grown up between New York, Monaco and London, with her sister Stephanie (right), 20-year-old fashion designer Lana Scolaro (left) knows nothing but the jet-set lifestyle .
10220
The two famous wrestlers, Balla Gaye 2 and Eumeu Sene, competed in the crunch match dubbed 'Le Choc' at Demba Diop Stadium in the capital of Dakar.
10221
Italy manager Antonio Conte and Southampton striker Graziano Pelle, who opened the scoring for the Azzurri, receive high praise for the part they played in the 1-1 draw with England.
10222
After doctors in the UK started turning him away, he began jet setting to other countries for cosmetic surgery - even approaching Botched doctors Dr Terry Dubrow and Dr Paul Nassif about getting back implants on last season's show, who ultimately said no to his request.
10223
The Health & Social Services Department said that following its initial investigation a doctor was excluded from treating patients at the Mignot Memorial Hospital and the General Medical Council (GMC) was informed .
10224
The man behind the prank video Andrey Yakubovich, told local media: 'Nobody has ever done anything like this before in the Ukraine, and it was our first scary prank video.
10225
The ball came out from a West Brom corner and Gardner took a touch before, 30 yards out and slightly to the right of goal, he buried a right-foot strike over Julian Speroni into the left of goal.
10226
Marca also recognises this issue at the Santiago Bernabeu.
In France, L'Equipe reports that PSG's 3-2 win at Marseille is an indictment at the improvement of Ligue 1 .
10227
The parking machine he used currently charges of £1.25 for an hour's parking, £1.85 for an hour and a half and £3.10 for two hours and 30 minutes.
10228
The Chilean, whose side have slipped to fourth place ahead of Monday's trip to Crystal Palace, said: 'Well, it is just the way of thinking, that big teams need to sign a big player.
10229
He scored five Champions League goals in the 2007/08 campaign and in May 2008 netted both goals in a 2–0 defeat of Parma on the final day of the season which sealed the Scudetto (Italian title) and a personal Serie A Footballer of the Year trophy.
10230
High-wire performer Nik Wallenda announces his latest stunt at the 400-foot Orlando Eye, during a news conference, in New York on Monday .
10231
Kelli Jo Bauer, is accused of stealing more than $100,000 worth of women's clothing and selling these goods out of her nearly $1 million home .
10232
Leicester boss Nigel Pearson would have had the 'outstanding' Esteban Cambiasso down as his man of the match in Saturday's 2-1 win over West Ham even if the veteran Foxes midfielder had not scored his fine goal.
10233
Allan Donald has confirmed he is to step down as South Africa bowling coach after four years in the role .
10234
West Brom midfielder Craig Gardner celebrates having scored the second for Tony Pulis' side .
'Yes, it's massive,' he said when asked about the importance of the victory.
10235
The CEO of a Seattle startup has instituted a $70,000 minimum wage at his credit card processing company - and he's paying for it by slashing his $1million salary to the same as his lowest-paid worker.
10236
Debenhams said that despite fewer sale events, feedback suggests customers now think the store is actually better value.
10237
So instead, she contacted a number of tattoo artists to see if they could cover the lyrics by working them into a new tattoo design.
10238
Thames Valley Police called an Army bomb disposal team after a startled passer-by reported the 4ft long guided missile in a rocket launcher on top of the barge in Reading.
10239
Officers joked that the futuristic-looking car from the 1980s had a 'leaky flux capacitor' from the movie .
The looks almost the same as the movie prop.
10240
The researchers estimate that anaesthetic gas emissions currently combine to produce the equivalent effect in the atmosphere of 3.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
10241
Becky, 16, went missing from her Bristol home in February and her dismembered body parts were found 11 days later.
She was identified by DNA.
10242
Sonia says her daughter is aware that her little sister is sick, but just wants to spend as much time with her as she can .
'Every day is truly a gift.
10243
At Manchester City, former Chelsea team-mate Frank Lampard also has seven goals in all competitions this season - but Terry has fared better than forwards Edin Dzeko and Stevan Jovetic who have only found the back of the net six and five times respectively.
10244
The campaign invites Aussies to create a profile picture and cover photo for their Facebook page, in memory of the service men and women of World War I, complete with the Woolworths logo and a 'Fresh in our memories' slogan.
10245
Tyrus Byrd, 40, was sworn into office in Parma last week, but her election victory was overshadowed by the departure of the majority of the police force, the city attorney, clerk and water treatment supervisor.
10246
Dr David Stewart, the medical director for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, said the South Glasgow University Hospital 'allows us to truly bring healthcare into the 21st Century'
10247
Wallace, who signed for Chelsea in January 2013, is on a season-long loan at Vitesse (right)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
10248
I just do the job.'
'I feel I am coming close to full potential - although who knows exactly what that is - but I do feel quite satisfied.'
10249
Expat:
In February, Mr King's car, a Renault Scenic (above) was found parked in Vire, a nearby town, but there was no sign of any body .
10250
Questions put to her in the test included: . 'What was the scoreline for the 2014 FA Cup Final vs Hull City?', . 'What player scored the winning goal in the 2014 FA Cup Final?'
10251
Mr Spalding's body parts were found inside this suitcase, which was dumped in the Birmingham Canal .
Mr Spalding was heard to reply: 'I'm tired, I'm hungry, I want to go home.
10252
A mother who blackmailed a lover she met on dating website Plenty of Fish by threatening to post footage online of their sex sessions if she did not receive £55, has been jailed for 12 months.
10253
Exposure to a wide range of bacteria is necessary to prime the immune system early in life, according to the hygiene hypothesis .
10254
Its mother, after keeping a close eye on Kali, then gets up and follows the young dog over to the corner of the decking.
10255
Lee Clark admitted Blackpool face a challenge to win back their stay-away fans after an evening in which their relegation into Sky Bet League One was marked by pre-match supporters' protests against Karl Oyston.
10256
Yahoo reports that the anonymous man behind the page says he's a 'big fan of Lucy's.'
Artist Dave Poulin has declined to comment on the controversy surrounding his work .
10257
While E-scape customers are relaxing at home, their social media accounts - including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat – are updated to give the illusion they're on a trip away.
10258
Rory McIlroy hits a tee shot during the practice session at Augusta National Golf Club on Monday .
‘There’s only six years between us, so we talked about girls and things.
10259
Klaus-Dieter Scheurle, head of the Deutsche Flugsicherung authority, urged the aviation industry to develop the system which could help prevent a repeat of the Germanwings crash last month.
10260
South American boa constrictors are pinkish or tan in colour and have varying patterns of cream, brown, tan, gray, and black with ovals and diamonds.
10261
Silvia said: 'He worries because he doesn't want me to hurt the baby, when he does find out I'm eating something he just feels like he's not doing enough.
10262
Paul Guzman of Fairfield, California, the father of 8-year-old Brock Guzman, took video that he claims shows police throwing his wife Suzanne on the ground in handcuffs just moments after they reported their son missing.
10263
After being told that the consistency of the pudding could see it 'technically' classed as Semtex, he reportedly offered to let security taste the delicacy to prove it wasn't.
10264
'My mum was fat and my favourite sister was fat, as were my grandparents, my grandmother and my great-grandmother,' she said .
10265
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt last year announced a plan to ‘train and retain’ an extra 5,000 GPs, which Tory sources said last night would allow them to deliver the same-day pledge.
10266
Patrick Jones of Buzz60 was covering a recent anti-catcalling campaign, which saw signs a series of pro-feminist signs being placed on several streets around New York City, when he took to the street to hear opinions from the public.
10267
The teens' courtship officially began on April 6 - the same day his 23-year-old older sister Jill gave birth to her son Israel David, her first child with her 26-year-old husband Derick Dillard.
10268
An angry neighbour who stormed onto the catwalk at Sydney's Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week while fashion designer Kym Ellery was taking her bow has compared the noise being made at the event to a jumbo jet.
10269
General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, sent a letter saying he regretted that he 'added to the grief' of Debbie Lee, whose son Marc was killed in Ramadi on August 2, 2006.
10270
But now Ram and thousands like him are daring to hope they will finally be able to shed the refugee status that has plagued them for decades, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist party won a share of power in India's only Muslim-majority state.
10271
A dog breeder and exhibitor who dragged her pet behind her car at a speed of 30mph and failed to get painful wounds to its paws and chest treated, has been banned from keeping animals and had her dogs confiscated.
10272
Other findings include that more than half of home carers have not been shown how to care for people with colostomy bags and 45 per cent have not been trained to change a catheter bag.
10273
Mr Jatta had threatened to go on hunger strike unless Bristol City Council hand over his wife, who he says has pleaded to return home to her husband.
10274
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has claimed there is no crisis at Anfield despite successive morale-sapping defeats by rivals Manchester United and Arsenal.
10275
Chris Smalling says Manchester United have Arsenal and Chelsea in their sights following their resounding victory over champions Manchester City.
10276
Mandy said: 'Dave was like a breath of fresh air.
Mandy felt she could trust Dave and, for the first time in her life, confided about the abuse she suffered .
10277
And he said he was disappointed not to have enjoyed an early night.
Michael Bisping (left) lands a kick to the head of CB Dollaway during their UFC 186 fight in Montreal .
10278
Pensioners are seven times more likely to develop serious skin cancer today than they were 40 years ago, research shows.
In 1975 the figure was just 1,800.
10279
Arsenal's midfield trio Jack Wilshere, Mikel Arteta and Abou Diaby have all been handed starts for the club's Under 21s game on Tuesday night as they continue their respective recoveries from injury.
10280
Violently shaken: Kealeigh-Anne Woolley, pictured above before the incident, was just seven months old when she was left blind, unable to talk and severely brain damaged after being shaken by Colin Heath .
10281
The Showtime video takes you inside Floyd Mayweather Jnr's training camp ahead of $300m fight .
The undefeated American looks focused as he takes a breather after a workout .
10282
'It surprised me a little bit,' Powell said.
He looks like a mature young player who can handle things pretty much the way Kevin did when he was a young fella.
10283
Bush apparently remarked that his brother, presidential candidate Jeb Bush (above) could encounter struggles in his campaign due to his last name because Americans do not like dynasties .
10284
Callum McManaman (West Brom)
Callum McManaman's move to the Hawthorns has coincided with West Brom's slip into relegation battle .
10285
It's understood 40-year-old Shivnarine Chanderpaul, who held up England with a dogged 46, wants to continue in Test cricket so he can play in the same West Indies side as his promising 18-year-old son Tagenarine.
10286
Artist Lauren Baker added the half a million crystals by hand saying she has an obsession with working with the shining gem stones .
10287
Scott Beaty, a 15-year-veteran, was taken to the intensive care unit and will need reconstructive surgery after suffering a brain bleed and broken bones in his face.
10288
With 10 times that number expected to descend on this oasis in the Nevada desert – just so they can say 'I was there' on the night Mayweather finally fights Manny Pacquiao – the MGM food and beverage department are taking no chances.
10289
Gerard Pique and chart-topper Shakira were in the stands as Kei Nishikori was crowned Barcelona Open champion for the second consecutive year after a hard-fought 6-4 victory over surprise Spanish finalist Pablo Andujar on Sunday.
Andujar broke serve in the opening game with Nishikori making uncharacteristic mistakes and the score was 2-2 before either player held serve.
10290
The aid agency has been negotiating for a week to deliver life-saving supplies and equipment to Yemen, where the coalition has conducted 11 days of air strikes against Iran-backed Shi'ite Houthis.
10291
But footage shows that the prank turned out to be decidedly disastrous, with Randy's six-year-old granddaughter Porter getting red-faced and dramatically crying in horror.
10292
Dodgers fan James Montelongo checks the radar during a rare rain delay prior to a game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Diego Padres on the second day of the season .
10293
AARON CRESSWELL (West Ham) Wanted by: Manchester City, Chelsea Valued at: £12m .
Manchester City and Chelsea are interested in the defender, but West Ham are hopeful he will stay .
10294
Writing in the journal, Dr Hone and his colleague Darren Tanke from the Royal Tyrrell Museum in Drumheller, Alberta, said the Daspletosaurus appeared to have lived a violent life involving battles with other members of its own species.
10295
Vardy put in a 10-out-of-10 performance at the weekend as he inspired Leicester to an unlikely victory .
But what I saw on Saturday was 10 out of 10 from Jamie Vardy.
10296
At the height of her anorexia, Miss Hall would live on just 10 calories a day - or go three days without eating a single thing .
10297
To date, the midfielder has made 32 appearances for City in all competitions on loan this season from MLS outfit New York City - scoring seven goals.
10298
The penultimate shot of the trailer shows the Millennium Falcon - whose pilot is as yet unknown - being pursued across Jaku by a pair of TIE fighters, presumably the same ones that were chasing Finn and Rey.
10299
A cancer-stricken Indiana woman saw Christ in her chest x-ray after she was hospitalized with pneumonia following breast cancer surgery in December of 2010.
10300
I think Augusta and the Masters and everybody with that event, they want to grow the game so badly.
'That's what it is, about growing the game and giving people opportunities.
10301
Hazard scored Chelsea's 38th minute winner against Manchester United and is widely expected to be named PFA player of the year on Sunday.
10302
Real Housewives Of New Jersey star Joe Giudice has had his driving license suspended for two years by a state judge who called his driving record the worst he's ever seen.
10303
FA Cup, the oldest knockout football competition in the world, is set to be rebranded as the Emirates FA Cup in a new £30million sponsorship deal .
10304
Bidders can raise their paddle for a sapphire Issa wrap dress (right); the same as the one worn by Kate Middleton during the photo shoot for her engagement to Prince William in 2010 (left)
10305
Jordan Spieth hits a tee shot on the eighth hole during the final round of the RBC Heritage Tournament .
St Andrews will be Nick Faldo's last Open .
10306
Drugs charities have highlighted the dangers of so-called 'hippy crack' after footballer Raheem Sterling was filmed apparently inhaling the drug.
10307
Miss Broom receives monthly benefits including £460 disability living allowance and joint £200 housing benefit with fiancé Jordan Burford, 39, who also gets £134 income support a month.
10308
Clearly impressed by Kane's 19 Premier League goals this term, Mulumbu has tipped the 21-year-old for the players' Player of the Year award while selecting Hazard, almost three years Kane's senior, for the young player's prize.
10309
AND WHAT TO DO IF YOU COME INTO CONTACT WITH A SHARK...
There are lots of myths around what you should you if you are unlucky enough to come into contact with a shark.
10310
You wax my back, I'll wax yours: Sharon trims her husband's eyebrows, waxes his nostrils and trims his pubic hairs, while he returns the favours with waxing, spray tans and eyelash tints .
10311
It has long been known that the song about 'the day the music died' refers to February 3, 1959, when rock n' roll icon Buddy Holly and fellow singers Ritchie Valens and J.P. 'Big Bopper' Richardson died in a plane crash.
10312
As Coca-Cola knows all too well, linking its product to happy and exciting events such as visiting the London Eye is likely to forever link Coca-Cola to the idea of 'fun' in the minds of young, impressionable kids (and adults).
10313
A security guard from China has touched hearts across the country because he takes his 84-year-old mother with him to work on the back of his motorbike every single day, reported the People's Daily Online.
10314
Taylor (pictured) communications director of the City of Brookhaven in Georgia, made the 'racist' remark at Cherry Blossom Festival, which photographer Nelson Jones had been hired to take pictures of .
10315
Doug told the Lexington-Herald Leader that his parents ran off to get married and that he doesn't believe 'either one of them had the blessings of their parents.'
10316
Ospina has played 12 Premier League games; Arsenal have won 11 and he has kept six clean sheets, but Wenger still needs to buy a new No 1 if they are to be title challengers.
10317
Turkish Airlines spokesperson Dr. Ali Genc told MailOnline Travel: 'Turkish Airlines TK 1878 Milan-Istanbul flight has landed safely after its first attempt to Istanbul Ataturk Airport.
10318
Gary Caldwell admitted his first taste of management was 'crazy' following Wigan's battling 2-2 draw against Fulham.
'It's crazy, absolutely crazy.
10319
Many of the smartphones on sale today - including Apple’s iPhones, Samsung’s Galaxy phones and LG phones - come with built-in FM chips.
10320
Surprise visit to see family: The couple were flying in Mr Rous's Piper Cherokee from Dundee, where they lived, to Tiree, where Dr Rous grew up, to spend the weekend with her mother and sister .
10321
The statement Nineties chop, made famous by Jim Carrey’s Lloyd Christmas in Dumb And Dumber, has graced the heads of celebrities far and wide in recent years - from Rihanna and Robert Pattinson to Lena Dunham and Miley Cyrus - and is spreading like wildfire among hipsters.
10322
He was also quick to point out what he saw as the 'graveyard' of City's right-hand side as United punished them time and time again along the hosts' attacking left.
10323
And then — in a phrase that decades later became the title of a hit musical starring Barbara Dickson — she famously announced that she was going to ‘spend, spend, spend’.
10324
He described the ruling as an 'end to the nightmare' Amanda Knox (pictured) vowed to return to Italy just two days after being cleared of murdering British student Meredith Kercher .
10325
Unusual set-up: Steven and Katie Greenberg, above, were raised in separate faiths - Steven Jewish and Katie Catholic .
It was really just normal for us.
10326
This property, which was snapped up for £11.6 million last year, is somewhat confusingly registered under multiple names.
Current estimated value – £80 million .
10327
Spotify and its rivals in the streaming music world are working hard to understand the tastes of their listeners, so they can make better recommendations for them (file picture)
10328
Michael van Gerwen and Raymond van Barneveld (centre) pose with compatriots Daley Blind (left) and Robin van Persie (right) at Old Trafford on Wednesday .
10329
Here's hoping: Jewelry brand Jet Set Candy's Marry British Royalty Spinner Charm comes in 14K gold vermeil (L) and sterling silver (R) and retails for $198 and $148, respectively .
10330
Instead of using a spark and fuel mechanism like traditional lighters, the Illume ArcLighter creates a ‘super high-intensity’ electrical arc between two ceramic electrodes.
10331
Dress, £150, Adrianna Papell at johnlewis.com .
4/5 .
Dress, £89, divacatwalk.com .
4/5 .
Shoes, £575, biondacastana.com .
4/5 .
Dress, £48, asos.com .
10332
Celta Vigo forward Nolito has declared that Lionel Messi should hit the Spanish coast on Sunday instead of risking his foot injury during their La Liga clash.
10333
But the party's surge in support was hit by a series of disastrous media appearances from the party's leader Natalie Bennett in which she struggled to explain her key policies.
10334
So visitors to Dornoch’s golf course or the Sutherland town’s historic cathedral were surprised instead to be pointed in the direction of some toilets, the local GP... and an abattoir.
10335
The team had to get up at 4am to set up the cameras to capture the rainbow run from a number of angles, before the ice melted during the day .
10336
President Obama said the thought of Malia, 16. heading to college has him crying on a daily basis .
'Let's face it, I like Stanford grads.'
10337
Stay in a castle in the Lake District  (£95 per night), a stately home in Wiltshire (£150 per night) and a private island in the Philippines (£234 per night - based on ten people staying in a two-storey house on the beach) through Airbnb.
10338
Barcelona trio Luis Suarez (left), Neymar (centre) and Lionel Messi have scored 102 goals this season .
Stats courtesy of Opta .
10339
Vesely saw off Bedene 6-1 6-4 to reach the final four and tee up a clash with Spanish veteran Daniel Gimeno-Traver.
10340
Payge (right) said she is not a confident swimmer and didn't think about the shark-infested waters when she leaped into the harbour but she knew that the man's life depended on her .
10341
Snarl:
Slow and steady:
John Mullineux, a chemical engineer from Secunda, South Africa,spotted the scene while driving along a desert track .
10342
Charlotte Roach and her business partner Rosemary Pringle dressed up in different costumes for every day of lent to raise money for the Air Ambulance Service which saved Charlotte after she was involved in car accident in 2010 .
10343
Packages containing heroin and cannabis were cleared from the roof of HMP Altcourse in Liverpool - hurled there from the outside by friends of inmates who missed their intended targets.
10344
Pregnant TV meteorologist Kristi Gordon called out the online bullies who attacked her appearance during the online only segment News Hour Plus .
I don't feel that this is really affecting me or has affected me.'
10345
Gravitational lensing occurs when a massive galaxy or cluster of galaxies bends the light emitted from a more distant galaxy, forming a highly magnified, though much distorted image.
10346
The city of Boston received 108.6 inches of snow - about 9 feet - during this last winter, topping a seasonal record of 107.9 inches that was set in 1995-96 .
10347
At the finish line of the six-day 256km race through the Moroccan desert, the 71-year-old, who has previously suffered two heart attacks and underwent a double heart bypass in 2003, said the event is 'not set for old geriatrics like me'.
10348
Keith Anthony Allen, 27, of Columbus pleaded not guilty Monday to charges including rape, felonious assault and gross sexual imposition.
10349
Chelsea striker Dominic Solanke celebrates scoring his side's second goal against Roma on Friday .
Brown (left) charges forward to collect the ball ahead of Roma's Silvio Anocic (right)
10350
James Creag must use the special brown suncream (pictured) as he suffers from a rare sunlight allergy .
He was playing football in the garden with my husband, Daniel.
10351
Natalie finally took her first steps one year after the accident, and then gave birth to her new baby, Scarlett in August 2013 .
10352
Bayern Munich .
Juventus .
If the Champions League winner also wins its national title, then the eighth top-seeded team is the Dutch champions.
10353
All our money is tied up in the property.’
Patrick and Valerie Jubb are planning to move back to the UK, but said their money is tied up in the property .
10354
Earlier in the week, it was revealed that the hospital's medical service provider Serco failed to return sterilising equipment by an arranged date in February.
10355
Hazard is poised to win PFA Player of the Year as Chelsea storm towards the Barclays Premier League title, but Neville says Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi are 'in outer space' by comparison.
10356
That's a lot of beer money: More than 100 cases of Natural Light beer, five cases of Corona and a five-litre box of Franzie White Zinfandel was confiscated .
10357
James May (right) backtracked on his comment that Top Gear viewers who sent threatening tweets to Sue Perkins (left) should 'kill themselves'
10358
Meanwhile, Raymond van Barneveld came from behind to defeat Dave Chisnall and Phil Taylor drew 6-6 with Adrian Lewis.
Stephen Bunting 7-1 Gary Anderson .
10359
The K-9 Angels (Pola pictured) have rescued hundreds of stray dogs from being killed in Romania and re-homed them in the UK .
Happy home:
10360
It is in the final game that most points are won, as the players shoot from long range aiming to sink their footballs through the top of a convertible Audi.
10361
How the Premier League table looks ahead of April 4 .
Van Gaal knows victory over Villa on Saturday could see them leapfrog Manchester City into second place .
10362
A 90-year-old man loved by his community has been found with his hands tied behind his back and beaten to death in his own home.
10363
Floral print skirt, £109, fennwrightmanson.com .
Sandals, £34, office.co.uk .
Clutch bag, £145, russellandbromley.co.uk .
Suede courts, £195, lkbennett.com .
10364
However, it has not been working for two years after every single fixed device was switched off in the West Midlands.
Big Brother is watching:
10365
Mrs Harris, pictured conducting a ritual with the doll, has experienced migraines and feeling drained after working with Peggy, and said she has never seen a case of this intensity before .
10366
Newcastle fans are planning to boycott the club's next home game against Tottenham on Sunday, April 19 and turn up the heat on owner Mike Ashley.
10367
'Officers are investigating the incident and are linking it to an incident at the same location on 7 February in which a man sexually assaulted two teenage girls in the changing area.'
10368
Atletico hope that may give them leverage, but Luis said: ‘I’m happy at Chelsea.
‘He always says that to us.
He never says anything else.
10369
Iker Casillas has described the constant attention surrounding his status as Real Madrid's No 1 as 'morbid' after keeping a clean sheet against Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday.
10370
High winds have meant travel chaos on the roads and skies for people in Dubai, as flights bound for the city's international airport have had to be diverted because of the poor visibility.
10371
Charles de Gaulle Airport, Paris, France .
6. Paris Beauvais-Tille International Airport, France (BVA) 7. Frankfurt Hahn International Airport, Germany (HHN)
10372
Started in 1965, Meter Maids were the brainchild of Gold Coast developer Bernie Elsey who introduced the initiative to stave off the bad publicity associated with newly installed parking meters.
10373
Rosberg's criticism of Hamilton following Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix has reopened old wounds that at times festered between the duo last year.
'If you take a step back, this is motor racing, man.
10374
While Teigen's husband, crooner John Legend, was labeling the incident 'Spy gate' and celebrity and sports websites were quick to shame the 4-time Super Bowl winner, his longtime girlfriend Linda Holliday wondered, 'who didn't check her out in this photo?'
Check out other Zuhair Murad dresses at Neiman Marcus .
Visit site .
And here, in this gorgeous Zuhair Murad gown, she proves this once again.
Visit site .
10375
Presenter Fern Britton, who suffers from depression, has revealed how close she came to suicide following her divorce from first husband Clive Jones .
I’m 57, and I look like a 57 year-old, and I’m happy.'
10376
He's become a favourite with workers at the Dogs Trust in Basildon, Essex, who have been looking after him since he was found.
Max (pictured) is a 18.5in high fully-grown husky corgi cross.
10377
The fort remained in the family for 400 years, until it was sacked by Napoleon when he plundered the castle's gold and used it as a fortress for the French Revolutionary troops between 1796 and 1800.
10378
Gone With The Wind, which celebrated its 75th anniversary last year, was based on Margaret Mitchell's 1936 best-selling book about a spoiled Old South socialite, played by Vivien Leigh, and co-starred Clark gable as Rhett Butler .
10379
South Carolina Senator Tim Scott also added his thoughts on the killing, describing Mr Scott's death as 'unnecessary and avoidable'.
10380
After trekking through the beautiful Spelunca Gorge, I caught a cab to the seaside resort of Porto where a 16th Century Genoese tower stands guard over the harbour.
10381
Police had released surveillance video of a 'person of interest' who was seen entering the Donovan Hotel shortly after Messerschmitt texted his wife Kim Vuong at 7.45pm to tell her he would be home in an hour on February 9.
10382
England’s Glastonbury, running June 24 to 28 and featuring Foo Fighters in 2015, is the third most expensive with a £113 per day cost calculated from the five-day £565 ticket and an estimated average of £68 per day for meals and drinks.
10383
Before the campaign heats up: Hillary Clinton's aide Huma Abedin (left) was spotted grabbing a Mexican lunch with husband Anthony Weiner and three-year-old son Jordan at quaint Tortaria in New York on Saturday .
10384
The report also found that families with children living at home are spending 50 per cent more to stay digitally connected to the world than singles, couples without children and empty nesters.
10385
Claire Nugent, 43, and Nigel Morter, 47, have been married for 14 years.
They restored a 1940s airfield control tower in Norfolk and now run it as a B&B .
10386
Study shows that 40 minutes of extra natural light per day, by playing outside or climbing trees, could help to reduce cases by 26 per cent (file image)
10387
Ryan Burns of Eureka, California, said he could barely believe his eyes when he went out to investigate where the beeping was coming from and caught the pooch in action.
10388
Draw 23/10 .
Swansea are looking to win three Premier League games in a row for the first time since the opening three games of the season.
10389
Ms Bartholomew claims the man working at Sam The Butcher in Bondi swore at her and told her to leave, but the man working at the time said his customer was the one being rude .
10390
Australians have taken to social media to remember the sacrifice of the Anzacs, as record numbers gathered at dawn services across the country to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Gallipoli landing.
10391
But following Dawn's dramatic walkout, Jamie, flanked by a furrow-browed Mr Kyle, insisted that it had all been a huge mistake.
'I made one mistake.'
10392
The family hired a private investigator who learned a homeless man said he spoke to Jones outside of the Walmart, and he has since been interviewed by San Bernardino County Sheriff's deputies.
10393
Tomas Berdych advanced to the semi-finals of the Monte Carlo Masters for the third time on Friday after opponent Milos Raonic retired with a foot injury.
10394
The more unbelievable Photoshop jobs included a photo of Noah’s Ark majestically cruising into Sydney Harbour amidst a grey stormy backdrop and a Bondi house with sand pouring through its doors.
10395
Fabio created a video showcasing pictures of their time together followed by the words 'Laura I have a question for you' that was played at the end of the trailers of Fast and Furious 7 .
10396
Cristiano Ronaldo will start for Real Madrid against Eibar on Saturday after his yellow card for diving in Wednesday's 2-0 win over Rayo Vallecano was rescinded.
10397
Now scientists involved in the Women's Health Initiative study have warned, after further follow-ups, that women who take the combined oestrogen and progesterone HRT therapy continue to have a high risk of breast cancer, up to eight years after they stop treatment.
10398
Overall, Labour received £1.1million in donations between April 6 and April 12 – more than twice as much as the Conservative party which received just £492,512 - in a blow to David Cameron, pictured in Penzance, Cornwall today .
10399
One very public proposal was captured when a brave groom dropped to one knee in front of a packed stadium to propose to his cheerleader girlfriend .
10400
The system uses high-definition cameras and interactive toys to let the children control three different cat toys at the shelter with the push of a button, and then watch on the TV as the animals react and play with them.
10401
The thieves appeared to have disabled the communal lift on the second floor, before using the lift shaft - which was destroyed when police officers arrived at the scene - to climb down to the vault.
10402
Medical professionals at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences in Little Rock ruled out several causes for a 56-year-old man's kidney problems before blaming the 16 cups of iced tea he drank daily.
10403
A staff member from the American Kennel Club centre attempts to pacify the puppy by giving it a rub .
10404
A team led by Imperial College London (pictured) has already applied to patent the therapy, which they say could be ready for human trials within three years .
10405
CCTV footage of the moment Mrs McGoldrick (in light blue jacket) fell to the floor was played as it was argued Tesco employees can be seen pulling Mr Anderson (in grey hat) which ultimately lead to her injury .
10406
Bamieh, who was hired by Jane Laut shortly after the killing, told the Ventura County Star after the arrest that she wrestled the gun from an abusive husband after he became intoxicated and said he was going to kill her after he killed their 10-year-old son and their dogs.
10407
A former soldier who had his kneecap blown off in combat more than 30 years ago is suing his employer after he was nicknamed 'Hoppy' by a colleague.
10408
Nedum Onuoha is wanted by Hull City.
Nedum Onuoha is being targeted by Hull City but is also interesting Everton and West Ham United .
10409
Schoolgirl Rachelle Owen, 16, has died after being struck by a train - just two months after her mother Kay Diamond, 44, was allegedly murdered .
10410
Usain Bolt has revealed he wants to smash his own 200-metre world record by running the distance in under 19 seconds and insists he is almost impossible to beat when he is fully fit.
10411
'Next customers are not looking for high fashion, but clothes to wear to an interview or at the office, and they have a much better line in these, including their designer copies, than Marks & Spencer.'
10412
In the calls, the 30-year-old accused staff of being behind the December 14, 2012 shooting that left 20 children and six female educators dead, according to police in Monroe.
10413
One of two teenagers feared to have crossed into Syria to join ISIS is believed to be a relative of Hammaad Munshi (pictured), who became Britain's youngest convicted terrorist when he was found guilty of terror offences at the age of 18 in 2008 .
10414
Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT), which teaches people to focus on the present moment, has similar recurrence rates as anti-depressants, a study found .
10415
Weiskopf three-putted the same green, Nicklaus won by a single shot, and the defeated giant later described Nicklaus’ shot as the best putt he had ever seen.
10416
CND's survey of Labour candidates suggested as many as three-quarters opposed the replacement of Britain's Trident nuclear deterrent.
10417
Deputy PM Nick Clegg said control of the Department for Education would be a key demand of any new power-sharing deal .
10418
I felt it on my shoulder and I felt it on my shirt.'
'I thought they were going to take my kids from me because I was told that I had hurt Mason,' Heale said.
10419
The iconic black and white images that have since emerged of Pacquiao at his Manila gym at the age of 17 were taken three years after he arrived in the capital, and 10 fights into his professional career.
10420
CBS correspondent Lara Logan, who was brutally sexually assaulted while reporting in Egypt in 2011, is back home and recovering after she reportedly checked into a  DC hospital for at least the fourth time this year.
10421
'We are not asking for Myu to be freed, all we ask is for mercy, that he keeps his life and continues his positive impact on the Indonesian prison system and other inmates,' Niranjela said .
10422
Mario Balotelli moved a step closer to an Anfield exit in the summer as Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers revealed that the Italian had withdrawn himself from the squad to travel to Arsenal after taking a ‘slight knock’ in training.
10423
‘Unite has openly campaigned about the use of zero-hours contracts, which provide far fewer benefits such as holiday pay and pension, yet there is evidence in this case that tutors employed by Unite and other colleges worked under zero-hours contracts.
10424
Modifying the DNA of human embryos so that DNA changes are preserved in the germline - the sperm and eggs - means such alterations can be passed on to future generations.
10425
BBC2 boss Kim Shillinglaw (left) who has been tasked with finding a new presenter for the show, said Clarkson (right) 'will be back' on the BBC, despite his very public sacking from Top Gear just last month .
10426
Mr Cameron said the SNP would want voters across the UK to feel by the end of five years of chaotic administration that 'the country doesn't work, that the government does not work, that the country should break up'.
10427
‘You have to do it your own way,’ said Rooney.
Rooney insists the team spirit at Man United is fantastic but there are times when he needs to speak up .
10428
Arrested:  Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, 20, left, was arrested sleeping on a Florida beach early on Tuesday, nearly 24 hours after shooting dead his former work-study supervisor Ron Lane, right .
10429
The camera was loaded, focused and ready to take a photograph at around six feet away .
‘You get to see some really lovely scenes of youthful anticipation'
10430
Lelisa Desisa, 25, of Ethiopia won with an unofficial time of 2 hours, 9 minutes, 17 seconds and beat his previous winning time by more than a minute on a day when security was on high alert for potential threats to competition's 119th race.
10431
Sofia Vergara allegedly insisted her 44-year-old assistant be the surrogate for her and then fiancée Nick Loeb despite his reported objections .
10432
The unnamed woman has been placed in an isolation ward at Canberra Hospital for treatment on Friday with doctors and nurses wearing full protective clothing.
10433
Architect and photographer Yener Torun sought to challenge the one dimensional view of his changing city, and captures the new, minimalistic buildings that add a splash of colour to Istanbul.
10434
Mario Balotelli revealed his delight on Twitter after Manchester City forward Sergio Aguero struck early on against Manchester United, even though City's eventual defeat was good news for Liverpool.
Balotelli tweeted: 'Yeeeees city @aguerosergiokun !!! 1-0 OLD TRAFFORD...Stand up and shut up.'
10435
Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal says that Wayne Rooney suffered a knee injury during the defeat by Everton at Goodison Park on Sunday.
10436
The robots will be pole dancing for the remaining four days of the event, along with presentations from leading figures in the technology industry.
10437
Herbert, now 83, has owned it ever since, and said he was so taken by the home that he tended to its gardens as a volunteer before buying it from Nixon.
10438
Earlier this year, mummified remains of a man apparently meditating in the lotus position were unearthed in Mongolia with experts estimating the human relic was 200 years old.
10439
Several DEA agents were taking part in these parties in Bogota as early as 2001, said a summary of a DEA report released by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform at a hearing on the misconduct.
10440
University of Southern California senior and former Gamma Phi Beta president Alicia Jewell (R) presented the sorority's housekeeper Fannie Randle (L) with a $21,000 check last Monday for a brand new car .
10441
The mom-of-five, who admitted to turning towards alcohol during her divorce, also allegedly had sex with a 18-year-old man in the bathroom during the party, used sex toys on herself in front of the youngsters and later awoke to find a 16-year-old having sex with her.
10442
Golden Hillock School, Nansen Primary School, Park View School - all run by the Park View Educational Trust - Oldknow Academy and Saltley School in Birmingham were placed in special measures after inspectors found systemic failings in safeguarding pupils against extremism.
10443
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon (left), whose party is on course for a landslide north of the border, said Labour leader Ed Miliband (right) would soon ‘change his tune’ Religious visit:
10444
He explains how, in his world he was the self-proclaimed God; his word determined who lived or died.
For those living outside the Sensitive Needs Housing Unit, old rules apply.
10445
Russia yesterday lifted a ban on supplying Iran with the air defence S-300 missile system (above), which could be used to protect nuclear sites .
10446
The 16-year-old, son of seven-time F1 world champion Michael,  drew huge media interest to the Oschersleben circuit in Germany as he drove his Van Amersfoort car.
10447
Chris Keates, general secretary of the NASUWT (pictured), likened the caffeinated refreshments to ‘readily available legal highs’
10448
He and his late wife, Arvella (seen together in 1950) started a ministry in 1955 with $500 when he began preaching from the roof of a concession stand at a drive-in movie theater southeast of Los Angeles .
10449
The voluntary rescue unit, Hibiscus Rescue and North Shore Rescue lent a hand to the fishermen as alcohol appeared to be involved during the event.
10450
Dr Unt Tun Maung, 43, asked the vulnerable teen to remove her bra before cupping and squeezing each of her breasts, Durham Crown Court heard .
10451
The bedrooms also have beautiful french doors leading out onto the patio .
There is a sunny living room, filled with light due to the windows which line the room.
10452
Some 1,500 migrants have been rescued by Italian navy and coast guard ships in less than 24 hours, officials said Sunday.
in Sicily, the statement said.
10453
A lonely shepherd has been found dead alongside a scarecrow he had apparently had sex with after dressing it up in a long-haired wig and lipstick.
10454
Those capped at this level include George Boyd of Burnley, Craig Mackail-Smith of Brighton and Steve Morison of Leeds, who all went on to play at full international level, although not for England.
10455
‘But there had been road works, or construction work, going on in the street for the last couple of weeks, so she thought that they may have been working late.
10456
Through her involvement in this campaign, Ms Van Santen also wants to help raise awareness about the mortality rates of women who suffer from breast cancer.
10457
Early arrival:  thanks to endless days of sun and temperatures we would not expect until August, English tomatoes and asparagus are already on the shelves, weeks ahead of usual .
10458
Etihad premiered a new TV commercial last month starring and narrated by Kidman, which was shot onboard the airline's new flagship A380 plane.
10459
We still see that six-year-old cutie from ET when we look at the now 40-year-old Drew Barrymore.
But one with serious sass, style and sex appeal.
10460
It came as Mr Cameron turned the clock back to ape John Major’s election soapbox by climbing on to a wooden pallet to address the party faithful, but ended up being heckled by someone claiming ‘the NHS is dying’.
10461
Visit site .
On the catwalk, the leggy supermodel pioneered the 'horse walk', a stomping movement created when a model picks her knees up high and kicks her feet out in front .
10462
Celebrated Australian designer Akira Isogawa sent models down the runway with faces covered in sequins at his show on Wednesday morning at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Australia.
10463
Hyperion is shaped like a potato and is one of the largest bodies in the solar system known to be so irregular.
10464
Cracking the code:
The practice of crooks using a secret system to identify potential victims has been dubbed the Da Pinchi Code (file picture)
10465
Brian the lar gibbon, who is 50-years-old, was videoed by Amanda Dorman from South Lanarkshire, Scotland, who captured the critter’s creepy walk on a visit to the Lake District Wildlife Park near Keswick.
10466
It replaced a red-brick mansion with a neo-classical facade that was torn down by the previous owners.
Another resident added: ‘It looks like a downmarket mortuary.
10467
Tim Howard joined Everton in the Community's Medicash powered wheelchair football team for a training session at Croxteth Sports Centre last week.
10468
A year since the death of former Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova, his memory lives on at the club where he played an integral part in the most successful era in its history.
10469
Arsenal must make a swift decision on Petr Cech this summer or risk losing out on the goalkeeper.
Likewise, the Gunners may find that Chelsea are reluctant to sell them Cech.
10470
Moses, who volunteers with teenagers with learning disabilities, surprised her during her P.E. class with a bunch of flowers and a sign reading: 'Let's Party Like it's 1989' - a reference to an album by Taylor Swift, Ellie's favorite singer.
10471
Castleford's blockbusting Australian winger Justin Carney will be sidelined for up to two months after being told he needs to undergo elbow surgery.
10472
Allardyce feels if a club were to buy the England international, who currently has two years left on his contract at Liverpool, then they would not only be getting a player, but a brand.
10473
Gloucestershire Police were called to the incident on an unregistered road between the A417 and Cowley in Gloucestershire by the driver.
10474
Liam Marshall-Ascough, pictured seven years ago on a night out with a close friend, insists the pictures show him enjoying himself like any normal person in their twenties and do not undermine his ability to do the job .
10475
Wigan manager Malky Mackay has been sacked after just five months in charge, with Wigan facing relegation .
December 16:
December 19:
December 27:
10476
A statement from Durham Police said: ‘Adam Johnson, a professional footballer aged 27 from Castle Eden, County Durham has this afternoon been charged with three offences of sexual activity with a child under 16 years old, plus one offence of grooming.
10477
Julie, back right, appeared on today's This Morning with Nell McAndrew, back left, to encourage women to take up running.
It all helps hugely with motivation.
10478
Under legal pressure, the Obama administration will begin telling some suspected terrorists if and why they are on a list of tens of thousands of people banned from flying to, from or within the United States.
10479
Two-year-old Tommy’s mother – whose name, as it happens, is Kate – and father Paul, 41, are regularly stopped by people who want to have their photograph taken with the prince’s lookalike.
10480
Two-year-old Ronnie Tran (above) and his mother were held hostage by his grandmother who kidnapped the pair with a Taser from their home in Des Moines, Washington .
10481
A dash cam video from police shows Scott running away from his car during a traffic stop for a broken tail light .
WHAT THE VIDEO SHOWS .
10482
I bumped into former England rugby centre Will Greenwood and he told me a story about the end of the Rugby World Cup final in 2003, when Australia’s Elton Flatley scored a penalty with the last kick to take the game into extra-time.
10483
West Brom manager Tony Pulis has talked pre-season plans with Saido Berahino in an indication the England under 21 striker will remain at The Hawthorns beyond the summer .
10484
A new study has found that children who ate a diet higher in saturated fats and cholesterol had slower reaction times and a poorer working memory.
A stock image of neurons is shown .
10485
The speed of an earthflow can vary depending on the amount of water present and the angle of the slope and varies from being barely noticeable to relatively rapid, as seen in the video when a road becomes completely blocked (pictured) in a matter of minutes .
10486
But it is expected to sell for significantly more after a model previously owned by the French actor Alain Delon and requiring a full restoration sold for £12.5 million earlier this year.
10487
Puncheon reacted by sarcastically clapping in the direction of the City supporters after referee Michael Oliver and his assistant Gary Beswick checked to see if the Palace playmaker was OK.
10488
Blackburn should brace themselves for interest in their players from top-flight clubs following their run to the FA Cup quarter-finals, manager Gary Bowyer has said.
10489
'This RunBase is the front door,' Tom Grilk, the executive director of the Boston Athletic Association, said this week before checking in on the construction at the Boylston Street storefront.
10490
Sam Brownback, the governor of Kansas, tweeted a photo on Tuesday showing him signing the abortion-ban bill into law .
'He hopes the nation follows suit.'
10491
Saturday Night Live poked fun at Hillary Clinton just hours before she is set to announce she is running for president, by mocking her decision to tell the world via social media.
10492
Geoffrey Rush's great uncle, James Thomas Rush, served in the 15th Infantry Battalion of the Australian Army.
He entered the Egypt Theatre of War in November 1914.
10493
An extra point if you know the difference between a coffee cup and a demitasse cup.
Leather sofas are always seen as a tad suspect amongst the upper-middles and uppers.
10494
The 36-year-old retired last May after 15 years at his boyhood club having struggled to return from a persistent knee injury, but now reports claim he could be set for a return to playing with New York City or Al-Sadd after returning to training.
10495
Arnold Breitenbach of St. George wanted to get 'CIB-69' put on a license plate, the Spectrum newspaper of St. George reported.
Process:
10496
Sergeant Edwin Mee, 46, is said to have abused his position of power while interviewing applicants by raping and molesting 11 young women who wanted to join the forces.
10497
The super-curvy Latina is hoping to be Cuba's answer to Kim Kardashian and has a huge following in Colombia and other Latin American countries .
10498
Lesley Anderson, 52, (left) who owns Point Nouveau Bridal shop in Dunblane, sent a crystal-covered garter to Kim Sears with a hand-drawn picture of the couple (left).
10499
Arsene Wenger, the second-longest serving manager in Premier League history with 708 games to date, has kept 277 clean sheets and conceded 672 goals.
10500
Wilshere was joined by other injury plagued first team players including German forward Serge Gnabry and long-term absentee Abou Diaby who managed to last 56minutes as his own return gathered pace.
10501
Disturbing:
Anti-violence charities have accused the app of 'making a mockery' of abuse and 'glorifying violence'
10502
Australia's World Cup-winning batsman Aaron Finch has had surgery on his left hamstring and will be sidelined for up to three months.
10503
Over 50 families, all grieving for a loved one lost to asbestos exposure, have contributed heartfelt messages to a new moving artwork to help raise awareness, unveiled this week in Covent Garden, London .
10504
The 18-year-old was hit over the head 20 times with a rock and dragged into a garden where she was raped by the man and left for dead in the Beeston area of Leeds last month.
10505
The memo added this isn't the way Apple intends to launch all new products form now on and it loves 'those blockbuster Apple product launch days' but told store employees to prepare for the change .
10506
It is not the first time these outsized vegetables have turned up in China but usually they are grown by farmers using commercial fertilizers.
10507
Meanwhile, Farah will join a couple other Olympic gold medal winners from London's so-called 'Super Saturday' when he teams up with Jessica Ennis-Hill and Greg Rutherford to take part in the Sainsbury’s Anniversary Games.
10508
There are lessons to be learnt from the couple on how to split amicably - and how to stay friends with an ex.
You do need a separation period .
10509
Hodgson said he had many conversations with Hernandez about his father, who died unexpectedly when Hernandez was 16, with Hernandez telling him how his father commanded respect whenever he walked into a room.
10510
The liberal wing's four justices are expected to vote in favor of gay marriage, and could be joined by the more conservative Anthony Kennedy, who has often sided with liberals on issues of personal freedom, which would provide the five votes necessary for a majority.
10511
In the spotlight: According to NBC News, all of the band members have been denied bond - meaning they might not fulfill their upcoming tour dates .
10512
A court heard he deliberately sat near a three-year-old girl and stroked her hand with his finger - in full view of the child's mother and grandmother.
10513
An Arnhem TV station has lost one of its expensive drones after a chimpanzee managed to knock it out of the sky.
'Until..... the drone got just a bit too close.
10514
Jewell's local Social Security office told her that in November 2014 someone had filed her Social Security number as deceased.
10515
Surgeons were required to replace the main artery in his left leg with a vein and needed 112 staples to seal the horrific wound.
Emergency procedure:
10516
Tokyo's Narita International Airprot comes second, charging £3,728 ($5,600), while Kansai International Airport in Osaka charges £3,594 ($5,400) per landing.
10517
In this photograph police seized from the house of Ivan Milat's brother William, the serial killer is seen carrying the sleeping bag which belonged to Deborah Everist who with boyfriend Jame Gibson was the first of Milat's victims killed in the Belanglo State Forest .
10518
A spokesman for Surrey Police said: 'Officers were called to the Esso petrol station after three men entered the store, forced entry into the manager's office and whilst ransacking the room were disturbed by staff.
10519
The 1973 E-Type Jaguar, which is thought to be worth over $120,000 was completely written off when it came up against the Toyota Kluger on their Sunday drive.
10520
Lancashire's Liam Livingstone scored a reported world-record 350 for Nantwich Town in a National Club Championship match against Caldy on Sunday.
10521
Here, Sportsmail looks at his vast collection of super cars, private jets and jewellery.
Floyd Mayweather counts his money, the boxer has earned more than $400million throughout his career .
Another two cars are tagged with bows, a Ferrari and a Bentley .
And two years ago he posted a picture of just a single case of watches which he said was worth $6.4m.
10522
A former Guantanamo Bay prisoner arrested over the terrorist killing of a top female prosecutor in Uganda had been awarded £1million in compensation by the British government following his release.
10523
Thomas Cain's mother Ora Mae died in 1943, when he was just 12 years old, and he was left thinking that there were no surviving photographs of her.
10524
One of the Hillsborough samaritans sought by investigators has come forward after an appeal was launched to identify fans who tended to the wounded as they lay dying on the pitch at the 1989 disaster.
10525
Merry widow: Angelika Graswald (left), 35, has been charged with second-degree murder in the death of her missing fiance Vincent Viafore (right) Graswald called 911 telling the dispatcher she had fallen out of her own kayak.
10526
According to a police report, Kelsi Langely suffered a bruise below her left eye and there were visible finger marks around her neck - but the student said the neck bruises were love bites and her eyes were red from crying .
10527
'You never know exactly what EB is unless you have it... just the feel of it, the pain that you live in every day,' the bandaged teenager remarks in an interview with the Ottawa Citizen.
10528
Ms Smith told Daily Mail Australia last month she was 'baffled' when reports emerged this week where friends raised doubts about Ms Gibson's medical diagnoses and charity donations.
10529
Manchester United players  Wayne Rooney and David de Gea made the time to meet some sick supporters alongside manager Louis van Gaal on Monday.
When he doesn't whistle for a foul on Falcao, it's not a foul.'
10530
Napoli's Jose Maria Callejon celebrates his goal with team-mates Christian Maggio  and Marek Hamsik .
10531
Today's match was organised to help Motor Neurone Disease campaigner Gordon Aikman in his fight against the terminal condition.
10532
The jury at Jackson County Circuit Court (pictured) heard defendants Updegraff and Szewc were cited twice for public nuisance in 2002 and 2004 but failed to control their animals' barking .
10533
Soon, Holly the border collie hops onto Aoki's legs .
Skilled: Aoki's Instagram page and YouTube pages feature multiple videos of Ace and Holly performing tricks .
10534
She reveals that she would sit on one of her father’s knees at the breakfast table and Charlie McCarthy sat on the other.
, Bergen writes.
10535
The fire at Bradford City's Valley Parade claimed 56 victims and injured 265 on May 11, 1985 .
4: Dec 1971: tenant fire at Castle Mills, Cleckheaton, owned by Heginbotham .
10536
Lightning can occur between opposite charges within the thunderstorm cloud, known as intra-cloud lightning, or between opposite charges in the cloud and on the ground, referred to as cloud-to-ground lightning.
10537
January 27, 2015:
April 19, 2015:
Liverpool lose their FA Cup semi-final against Aston Villa to end all hopes of a trophy in Gerrard's final season.
10538
Drawing on the help of 30 flight attendants from four different continents, their lower deck designs reveal an area designed to feel spacious, private and with maximum personal comfort.
10539
The collector’s paradise in Horfield, Bristol, which has gone untouched for more than 80 years, comes complete with the original bathroom, kitchen, stained-glass windows and even oil-fired central heating - making it a collector's or antique love's paradise .
10540
You may have your heart set on those iconic Vera Wang bridesmaid dresses but George at Asda is hoping to help brides on a budget - by launching a wedding collection for bridesmaids and pageboys starting from just £7.
10541
The threat against flight 826 from Cologne Bonn to Milan's Malpensa airport was received on Sunday evening.
10542
The lack of Champions League football - which Spurs have missed out on since the 2010-11 season - is seen as a barrier to signing top-class players for clubs of Tottenham's size, but Eriksen says missing out on the Europa League would have the same effect.
10543
According to the SLT, the T-shirts mock a serious issue which affects one in six women, and play into people's fear of being laughed at, which prevents victims from seeking help to deal with stalkers and puts them at a higher risk of being attacked.
10544
The hands move a little slowly, hovering strangely above the work surface whenever they are not busy, but they imitate human movements closely enough that they can do things such as wipe a spoon on the edge of a pan to prevent drips.
10545
McWhirter has now admitted wasting police time and rendering Mr and Mrs Clark (pictured on their wedding day) to suspicion under the sexual offences act between October 13 and November 14 2013 .
10546
The jury has rested in the murder trial of former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez after two months and more than 100 witnesses that featured in the prosecution's case against him .
10547
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has confirmed Winston Reid will be fit for Saturday's match with bottom-club Leicester City, but Enner Valencia will not be available.
10548
A Liberal Democrat spokesman said this afternoon: ‘The idea that the Liberal Democrats had anything to do with Cllr Tanswell’s absurd allegations is categorically untrue.
10549
I thought that when my second daughter left primary school four-and-a-half years ago my nit ordeal would end, but no — it appears head lice are just as virulent among teens as they are among younger children.
10550
Tomas Berdych set up a hotly-anticipated rematch with Andy Murray with a straight-sets win against Juan Monaco in the Miami Open quarter-finals on Wednesday.
10551
'On behalf of the NSW Rugby community, I would like to offer our sincere condolences and support to the family and friends of Nick Tooth, and to the rugby community of Quirindi and the Central-North region,' he said in a statement.
10552
Another, Holly Ashby, asked why no one had asked Mr Miliband a question about his hair, complaining: . 'Why has no one asked about Ed Miliband's sexy Rogue-From-X-Men grey streak?
10553
Earlier this year, Get Rid of Sids Project ran into controversy when it invited Dr Tenpenny to speak at a number of seminars across Australia.
10554
In the wake of the tragedies, Italy has pressed the European Union to devise plans to stop the tide of migrants on smuggler boats in the Mediterranean.
10555
'Molly's family truly loved her and tried to be as supportive as possible as she struggled with the heroin epidemic that has been so destructive to individuals and families in her age bracket.'
10556
Her mother replies: 'Why can't you make my house clean?'
'If Tanner wants me to move, I'm moving!' says Saige, who is upset with her brother for throwing dirt at her .
10557
A glum-looking Thomas Muller, Manuel Neuer and Pep Guardiola were pictured at the airport ready to board their flight back to Bavaria after their 3-1 loss at the Estadio Dragao on Wednesday.
10558
There were fears the England defender may have fractured his right foot after taking a hefty blow from a collision with Kieran Trippier during the draw at Burnley on Sunday.
10559
In hiding: Crystal O'Connor and her father Kevin O'Connor said they'll re-open soon but were forced to close the doors to their pizza shop because the phones kept ringing and they didn't know if orders were fake or real .
10560
Birmingham Crown Court heard on Tuesday that Ghosh visited the Tesco store in Stratford Road, south Birmingham, on February 21 and was captured on its security cameras selecting items, including meat and bottles of wine, which he put into a bag.
10561
The veteran ship (pictured in 1951) even survived an atomic bomb test after being chosen as a 'target vessel' for Operation Crossroads on July 1, 1946 .
10562
MoM: Vardy .
West Brom midfielder Craig Gardner celebrates after scoring during his side's 3-2 defeat against the Premier League's bottom side .
10563
The Royal Mint is also to produce a celebratory £5 coin - again repeating the routine after Prince George's birth when it produced 10,000 silver crown-sized £5 coins.
10564
Jacob Church, 21, and Joe Tobin, 29, were at an art exhibition at a former bank building when the vault door shut behind them, leaving them trapped in total darkness.
10565
Before the boat - which was hosting a 'Dirty Funken Beats' party - left King Street Wharf at noon, three sniffer dogs were on hand to greet passengers .
10566
This 'loneliness map' was drawn up by Essex County Council showing the areas where residents are most vulnerable to becoming socially isolated .
10567
Nicholas James Langan, 24, from Townsville, was arrested about 1.00am on January 27 at a beach in Canggu, north of Kuta, for smoking a marijuana joint (file photo)
10568
Crushed to death: Ian Gibson, 55, was killed by a young bull elephant while measuring its ivory for a U.S. client .
The animal then charged.
10569
In two years the Thames Bath Lido, which will sit near Blackfriars Bridge, should open with the backing of a recently launched crowdfunding project.
10570
Doesn't like getting her hands dirty,' Ms Fox posted alongside this photo .
She's not a fan of getting her hands dirty normal,' Ms Fox wrote on the beach photo (left).
10571
The star of the couture collection though was the glittery, gold metallic asymmetrical dress that not only brightened up the dull  warehouse backdrop but wowed the audience with it's high cut, off the shoulder metallic design.
10572
A Saudi prince has promised to give a free Bentley to every pilot involved in the Yemen air strikes, as bombing raids in the country appeared to resume despite a pledge that they would stop.
10573
Kim Roberts admitted to stealing the precious paintings, vases and silverware from Dowager Countess Bathurst’s Cirencester mansion and her London home.
10574
Henthorn was charged with the murder of Toni Bertolet, 51, last November and police have reopened their investigation into the suspicious death of his first wife, Lynn Rishell, some 20 years earlier .
10575
London's Julie Falconer, for example, showcases the English capital in all of its glory, while adventure photographer Joe Greer has made a successful second career posting breathtaking landscapes of the Pacific Northwest.
10576
Reverend Creflo Dollar has defended trying to buy a $65million Gulfstream G650 with worshippers' donations by claiming 'the devil is trying to discredit' him .
10577
The manager of The Rex Cinema in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, cancelled the regular Tuesday baby matinees due to a combination of 'whingeing, bitching, snitching and the law'.
10578
'You asked, we listened,' the firm said.
Tinder now shows you the mutual friends and friends of friends you have in common with your potential matches.
10579
As the motorized plush bird bounces up and down and pops out an egg, the infant can barely believe her eyes.
After the show is over, the baby's big sister asks if she would like to see it again.
10580
Burton Albion players celebrate with the fans after their victory against Morecambe confirmed promotion .
10581
CLICK HERE for the second part of our countdown, featuring videos of shots from the likes of Jack Nicklaus, Bubba Watson and Tiger Woods...
10582
Volunteer St. Tammany Parish cop Danny Eckhart is accused of drunkenly taking a police patrol boat for a joy ride and then crashing it into a riverside bar .
10583
He has now been reunited with his owners (together left) after Julia Hill (right), who found the 18-year-old tabby outside her home in Calderdale last week, posted on a lost and found cats Facebook group .
10584
In the end George and Amal chose the Cavalli Palace, a 16th-century Renaissance building in the heart of the city opposite the Aman Canal Grande and close to the famous Rialto Bridge.
10585
The Slovakia international has made over 200 league appearances for the Reds since arriving in 2008 but has recently been linked with a summer switch to Wolfsburg and Napoli.
But Skrtel's agent Karol Csonto has confirmed it's unlikely the 30-year-old will leave Anfield as he prepares to finalise a new contract.
10586
Blame: Benito Gonzalez, 46 (photographed), who pleaded guilty to a lewdness charge after allegedly masturbating in a Starbucks says his post-traumatic stress disorder is to blame .
10587
Wine lovers will appreciate the exhaustive list of vino on the Berry Bros. app (left) while those looking for free cocktails should download Drinki (right) OpenTable, free .
10588
Neymar celebrates with Lionel Messi after giving Barcelona a 3-0 lead at the Nou Camp on Tuesday night .
Luis Enrique said: ‘Xavi is loved here.
10589
'I'm not scientist but for Paris Saint-Germain to lose to a big club like Barcelona and Monaco to lose to an experienced team like Juventus, but I think that in France we're okay being the country that finishes second,' the French defender told beIN Sports after the game.
10590
Army-veteran William Snyder, 34, was charged hours after the body of his wife, Kelley Jo Snyder, 34, was found in a river near to their home on Saturday.
10591
The KKK was founded in 1866 in Tennessee, with Nathan Bedford Forrest becoming the first leader, or grand wizard, in 1867.
10592
Barry Bonds, pictured in 2011, was sentenced to 30 days of home confinement and two years probation after a jury found Barry Bonds guilty on one count of obstruction of justice .
10593
Ian Harris is a member of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, whose followers believe the colander is a religious garment and he is fighting with the DVLA for his right to wear one in his driving licence photo .
10594
David Villa shows there's no hard feelings towards Atletico Madrid as he cheered on his former club during their crunch Champions League quarter-final first-leg clash with city rivals Real.
10595
The time of their lives has turned into the holiday from hell for up to 2500 passengers stranded on a cruise ship, the Carnival Spirit, outside Sydney Harbour and riding a constant flow of smashing waves of more than nine metres.
10596
Meanwhile, the Manchester United forward will reportedly be offered £5million to leave Old Trafford in the summer.
10597
Dr Adam Cobb was taken into custody on Friday in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, for receipt and distribution of child pornography after allegedly uploading images of child pornography to the social networking site, Tumblr.
10598
James Rebanks studied at the University of Oxford before returning to his roots in the Lake District, he is seen here with his sheep on his farm outside of Penrith in Cumbria .
10599
Louis van Gaal gave Depay his international debut for Holland and the player also worked under van Gaal's assistant, Albert Stuivenberg in the Holland Under-17 team which won the 2011 European Championships.
10600
But Wenger said: ‘I want every player to be respected, and Cesc Fabregas when he comes to the Emirates on Sunday, (I want him) to be respected like he deserves.’
10601
Chelsea were made to work hard for their three points against Stoke at Stamford Bridge on Saturday but Eden Hazard starred for Jose Mourinho's team.
10602
Dominic Solanke - enjoying an extraordinary season and hoping to win the Youth Cup for the second successive season having scored two goals in the last five minutes to sink Fulham last year.
10603
Sean Bowen maintained his three-winner lead (45-42) over Cheltenham Gold Cup winner Nico de Boinville in the fiercely contested Conditional Jockeys title race when both had one success on Monday.
10604
When she went back inside and asked Al Martin, the owner at the time, about the pay discrepancy, he thought that she was asking him to lend her money, saying: 'Oh, did you want a $60 spot?'
10605
Stomach cancer is a relatively rare form of the disease, with fewer than 25,000 cases annually in the US.
I was scared and really nervous,' Sandridge told ABC.
10606
In the long-awaited trailer for the film to be released this September, Depp plays James 'White' Bulger - the notorious Boston gangster who topped the FBI's most wanted list for 16 years before he was finally arrested in 2011.
10607
Parenting blogger Emily-Jane Clark, who runs the popular site How to Survive a Sleep Thief, which she describes as 'an antithesis to baby advice', has compiled a list of the ways that visitors can avoid annoying a new mother.
10608
UEFA has announced it has opened disciplinary proceedings against the Georgian Football Federation (GFF) after fans twice invaded the field of play during Sunday's 2-0 defeat by Germany in Tbilisi.
10609
And though 82 per cent have a memento of their first child, such as a lock of hair or a video of their first steps, only 23 per cent have a keepsake for their second, a report by Debenhams found.
10610
The fire completely destroyed the coach and is believed to have started in the engine compartment and spread to the body of the coach.
10611
Liverpool must stick with manager Brendan Rodgers as he is the right man to take the club forward, believes former Reds' striker Stan Collymore.
10612
As Emmanuel Sithole lay injured in the gutter another thug saw what was going on and joined in the attack using a knife to stab him repeatedly while the first attacked continued to beat him with the wrench .
10613
Grey and white cat Marv somehow managed to get wedged in a five inch gap in between owner Brendon Veale's garage and his neighbours in Hanham, Bristol and was left dangling for two hours.
play video .
10614
Much more than a village: The Parliament Building stands proud in The Hague - a hidden gem of a city .
This is Europe's biggest village,' says my guide, Remco Dörr.
10615
The court ruling handed down by Justice Nye Perram on Tuesday ordered that the identity of those who shared the content online using peer-to-peer sharing network Bit Torrent would be provided to the film's Hollywood studio, Dallas Buyers Club LLC.
10616
A man contacted police Friday after noticing he was driving in front of the truck that had been stolen from him earlier that morning near Piedmont, Calhoun County Chief Deputy Matthew Wade told WBRC-TV.
10617
The women of the University of Southern California tennis team capped off an undefeated conference season on Thursday by winning the PAC-12 championship.
10618
Kim Kardashian and husband Kanye West visited a centuries-old Armenian church in Jerusalem on Monday for the baptism of their daughter, North West.
10619
In the CBS interview, Mr Adams said he decided to contact the police himself because he was ‘sick, sore and tired of a tsunami of stories based upon these tapes linking me to Mrs McConville’s death’.
10620
12 rounds of jousting will give Mayweather a stunning $170m (£111m) purse, meaning the 38-year-old will be picking up $15m (£9m) per round and $5m (£3m) per minute.
10621
Toto Wolff (left) says Nico Rosberg (right) and Lewis Hamilton will have to deal with some 'unpopular calls' Rosberg then turned on Hamilton during the post-race press conference, accusing the world champion of being selfish.
10622
A close family friend claimed last night that Mr Adusah, 28, flew back to London but later returned to Ghana after his wife’s body was found by concerned hotel staff who used a spare key to check on her after she failed to answer the door.
10623
On Monday night, 42 people were taken into protective custody and 34 young people were driven home after a group of 50 young people threw ‘large rocks’ at police.
10624
Scroll down for video .
Webs and dirt hang from the ceiling and cages where the hens as an Animal Liberation Victoria activist looks on in shock .
10625
The Box is renowned in Western Australia  for its challenging shallow surf break directly over the reef, but also for its world-class waves.
10626
Michael Foster was appearing at a public ‘hustings’ in the Camborne and Redruth constituency when he objected to mention of his luxurious four-bedroom home by Loveday Jenkin who is standing for the Cornish party Mebyon Kernow.
10627
Haley Fox, 24, of Oregon, (left) allegedly fractured the skull of her 26-year-old online boyfriend Samuel Campbell (right) skull with a baseball bat because she didn't want to date him anymore .
10628
He says it would be a 'dream' to join a top club like Spurs and would relish the challenge of English football .
That is why England would be the next step.
10629
Cancer survivor Jonas Gutierrez was starting his first game in 20 months and was by some distance the only player in grey worthy of applause, and that he rightly received.
10630
The Millers fielded Derby defender Farrend Rawson in their 1-0 win against Brighton on Easter Monday after his youth loan had expired.
10631
A semi-professional footballer has been sacked by Clitheroe FC after he was filmed having sex with a supporter in the manager's dugout while wearing a club tracksuit.
10632
His appearance in the high profile magazine, in which he is also interviewed about his childhood and political stance, has sparked criticism and accusations that the minister if fishing for votes.
10633
You drove along the road and it appears you failed to see Mr Doyle, the school crossing patrol man, who at that time was escorting two 12-year-old girls across the road.
10634
The Gloucester No 8 has not played since breaking his left leg during an Aviva Premiership game against Saracens in early January.
10635
Despite thousands of foreign fighters flocking to join the Sunni extremist group and starring in their propaganda videos, ISIS' leadership is dominated by ex-members of the military of Saddam Hussein (pictured) Past:
10636
Contracted in the 1990s: A man who died in Texas of the human version of mad cow disease last year likely contracted it from eating beef raised in Britain, a CDC report has revealed .
10637
A 20-year-old British tourist has claimed she was molested by a taxi driver in Jaipur, who has now been arrested (pictured posed by model)
10638
In January 2014 Vanessa was pregnant with Jax (left) and a year later Melanie is seen pregnant with Ero (right) as the couple's first born plays at their feet on the beach .
10639
John Carver says that he's enjoying his role at Newcastle and believes he's getting the best out of the players .
It has been difficult, the facts are there.
10640
Jessica Yamauchi, executive director of the Coalition for a Tobacco Free Hawaii, called the legislation that could raise Hawaii's smoking age to 21 'groundbreaking'.
10641
Parker returns with his original voice, that of 89-year-old David Graham, but has dropped his chauffeur uniform (pictured) and now sports a roll-neck sweater with swept-back, grey-streaked hair .
10642
'But then Judgey hit a tremendous free-kick and Jota got an outstanding fourth goal.
'You need to get and press the ball, by being goal side you think you are protecting the goal.
10643
Leeds president Massimo Cellino insists he had nothing to do with the events that led to six players pulling out of Saturday's match against Charlton.
10644
The incident took place around 10am on Tuesday along Interstate 35W in Fort Worth, with traffic backed up as a result.
Sheriffs were eventually able to corral the pony and return him to his owner.
10645
An 18-month-old toddler, Harry, was dragged along the path (pictured) by a cyclist after getting caught under her wheel while he was out in Cambridge with his parents .
10646
It is unfortunate for anniversary-celebrating purposes that Waterloo lies in the French half where the locals are preparing to mark the bicentenary of the Battle of Waterloo – with Napoleon as the unchallenged star of the show.
10647
‘I can exclusively announce that Sunday night’s new phenomenon Poldark that has captured the nation’s hearts has been commissioned for a second series,’ Mrs Moore said, adding that the series had helped BBC1 to an ‘outstanding start’ this year.
10648
A video shows the rapid-fire weapon popping 26 balloons mounted on a wall.
Eight AA batteries power the laser motor and the gun's turret is powered by four ball bearings controlled by a mechanism under the gun.
A video shows the rapid-fire weapon popping 26 balloons mounted on a wall.
10649
Holding on:
The beauty pageant models strike a pose as they get to the top of a 2,000ft climb up a cliff pathway in the Henan province of China .
10650
Opening a freedom saving account with St George Bank in 2010, Moore was able to overdraw $2.189 million over three years, The Courier Mail reported.
10651
Great-grandfather: Murder victim Ujjal Singh (front right) with his daughters (back row, from left) Tipta Kaur-Singh, Shakuntla Kaur-Singh, Piaro Kaur-Singh, Sindy Kaur-Singh, and (front left) his son Amolak Singh .
10652
Sociedad seized the lead once more in the 57th minute with a goal of the highest quality when Gonzalo Castro volleyed home Sergio Canales' cross.
10653
The modified car includes integrated advanced electronics and a human-to-machine interface which allows quadriplegics -- like Schmidt -- to safely operate the vehicle under 'racetrack conditions,' according to Arrow's website.
10654
Mark Lippert suffered a deep facial gash and stab wound to his wrist after being attacked by a knife-wielding pro-North Korean activist during a breakfast forum in Seoul last week.
10655
Henri Morris, 67, was jailed for 10 years after admitting drugging a female employee during a business trip in order to take naked photos of her .
10656
The mother-of-five sent the fruit of to Queensland Environmental Health Branch for testing, but their first round of scientific tests were to no avail.
10657
Carwyn's family has said 'the most happy ski holiday' in Flaine, France, turned to tragedy after Carwyn became detached from the group on the last run of the day .
10658
'Cancer Research UK is supporting clinical trials for treating cancer with cannabinoid-based drugs in order to gather solid data on whether they benefit people with cancer.'
10659
Arsenal vs Liverpool (12.45pm) Everton vs Southampton (3pm) Leicester City vs West Ham United (3pm)
Manchester United vs Aston Villa (3pm) Swansea City vs Hull City (3pm)
10660
An African-American woman fired from a Maryland Hooters in 2013 sued the 'breastaurant' - and is now set to receive thousands of dollars from an arbitration ruling.
10661
While the white British population will increase between now and 2051, the minority population will increase nearly three times as fast, meaning they will make up a greater share of the population .
10662
The striker was knocked unconscious and rushed to intensive care for urgent treatment.
 Around 100 people gathered on Tuesday night at the ground to pay tribute to Mr Hiscox .
10663
John Carver is threatening changes when Newcastle face Liverpool on Monday night as he admits concerns remain over the character of his players.
10664
Ondrej Duda scored after the interval to lead Slovakia to a 1-0 victory over the Czech Republic on Tuesday in a friendly between the two teams that once represented Czechoslovakia.
10665
Ed Balls, pictured in Birmingham today, said the letter, left in the Treasury by the former Labour minister Liam Byrne in 2010, was just a 'jokey note'
10666
Lib Dem Danny Alexander could be given a peerage in a bid to keep him in his Treasury post in a second Coalition, it emerged today.
10667
STRENGTHS .
WEAKNESSES .
DANGERMEN .
RECORD .
10668
The 46-year-old Turkish prosecutor died in hospital when two members of the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) stormed a courthouse and took him hostage - uploading the photographs of Kiraz with a gun pointed at his head to social media in the process.
10669
Mr Kerr, whose full interview will be broadcast by Channel 4 News at 7pm tonight, said the two boys from Kincora children’s home who were taken to London with him both went on to kill themselves.
10670
Limousine company manager Raymond Townsend (right) was ordered to pay compensation to his employee Geralyn Ganci, (left) 32, after telling her she was fired because she would not have sex with him .
10671
Andy Carroll will not feature for West Ham United at Leicester City but he did score in the Hammers' 2-0 victory over the Foxes back in December .
10672
Shearing was convicted of indecent assault and sentenced to three years in jail at Swansea Crown Court (pictured) and now faces an additional sentence for absconding .
10673
The authorities have closed a total of six Chinese restaurants in the local area since police raided the Lo Yen City restaurant in southern Tijuana following a tip-off from the disgusted client.
10674
A speech given by the King in Durban last month, denouncing foreigners as 'ants' and 'lice' who should leave the country, has been blamed for sparking the violence.
10675
During the terrorising journey, Mr Rose told 9News that the truck driver spat out the window at the men,  however he did not manage to catch it on camera.
10676
Around 1,300 people are believed to have drowned in the past two weeks while trying to reach Europe in boats launched from Libya.
Monday afternoon:
10677
Tickets for the bout have also yet to go on sale and Arum claimed that the draft contract he received on April 15 was not what he agreed with Mayweather Promotions and MGM when the term sheet was signed a few months ago.
10678
President Barack Obama elicited groans and a thumbs down from head coach Bill Belichick after cracking a deflategate joke while honoring the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots .
10679
Students and staff were being asked not to use Martin's Way, but to leave campus via Green Apple Way to the Field House .
Emergency updates:
10680
Dorsey is the father of Blair's 17-year-old daughter and was the father of 13-year-old Stoni Blair who was found dead in a freezer.
10681
The leaflet – attached to green bins – told Stratford-upon-Avon residents what items could go in them but a footnote said: 'This is not recyclable'
10682
'The Diggers are Dole Bludgers' has attracted more than 360 likes since the page started in late January, and claims that the Australian armed services promotes the thoughtless killing of innocent civilians.
10683
West Ham (4-1-2-1-2): Adrian 6.5; Jenkinson 6.5, Collins 7, Reid 6, Cresswell 7; Song 7 (Nolan 67 mins, 6); Noble 6, Kouyate 7; Downing 5.5; Valencia 7.5 (Amalfitano 78), Sakho 6.5 (Cole 59, 5.5).
10684
His parents Tim and Rachel were reunited with Luke as he was put into an ambulance in a stretcher, with his mother giving him a kiss .
10685
Liverpool’s defeat by Manchester United last month had an average audience of 1.2 million on NBC cable and Spanish partner UNIVERSO combined.
10686
The 3,600-passenger, Union Jack-adorned Britannia is the largest ship built for the UK market.
When sugar cravings strike, I head for the quirky afternoon teas in Epicurean.
10687
He added: 'Miss Buck assaulted Mr Buckley causing him to fall to the floor and injure himself and cause the chain of events that led to his death.
10688
Popular: Top Gear has helped steer the BBC’s iPlayer to record levels after four episodes shown in February notched up nine million views .
10689
Lewis Hamilton is interviewed by three-time world champion Sir Jackie Stewart after the Bahrain Grand Prix .
Rajab charged with 'false' claims .
10690
Designer Any Step sent a model down the runway wearing a dress constructed of just purple leather straps connected in a criss-cross design, leaving much of her body on display.
10691
Rory McIlroy watches a tee shot during a practice round prior to the start of the 2015 Masters Tournament .
As for McIlroy, he knows where he needs to improve.
10692
Adnan Januzaj swapped the lush turf of Old Trafford for the green baize at Sheffield when he turned up at the snooker World Championships on Wednesday.
10693
In the wake of the hazing incident, the Sigma Nu fraternity was shut down in 1990 after the pledge's mother made her son's alleged assault public by going to the police.
10694
Summer pictured volunteering in South Africa.
The family have now launched an appeal to raise money for Guide Dogs for the Blind as a tribute to Miss Robertson.
10695
Wanted: Bobbi Ann House, 39, who became known as the 'military mistress' around 2010 for conning over a dozen servicemen, is now wanted again, this time for check fraud, along with her husband Zacherie House, 27 .
10696
Superior Court Judge Ronald Coen ruled Thursday that there was enough evidence for Knight, 49, to stand trial on charges he killed Terry Carter and attempted to kill Sloan during a parking lot confrontation.
10697
Stoke 10/1 .
Managers: Jose Mourinho (Chelsea), Mark Hughes (Stoke) Head-to-head league record: Chelsea wins 40, draws 18, Stoke wins 23 .
10698
Ben Thurlow, who has been spared jail after drunkenly attacking a female paramedic who tried to treat him after he sustained a head injury in a fight .
10699
Mr Miliband meanwhile has accused the Prime Minister of 'threatening the integrity of the United Kingdom' by talking up the prospects of Scottish nationalists in the May 7 General Election .
10700
Pellegrini will clearly have to answer difficult questions about the team’s under performance, especially as they have sunk to fourth place and run the risk of being overhauled by Liverpool for the Champions League.
10701
Fears of another season of domination from Mercedes were blown away by a shock, yet deserved victory for Sebastian Vettel last time out in Malaysia.
10702
Rating: .
Happiness on a plate: The Mistley Thorn has been around for ten years, and revels in an understated luxury .
The Mistley Thorn is happiness on a plate.
10703
Avengers lines of clothing mean that the Living Dead Clothing team of two quickly grew to a staff of 15 inside a large all-encompassing warehouse and Mr Lange admitted that 'we've gone from working in a small garage to a million dollar company'
10704
Heather Mack, 19, brutally killed Sheila von Wiese-Mack with the help of her boyfriend in August and dumped the bloody suitcase in a taxi outside the upscale St. Regis Bali Resort.
10705
Sanderson went to Gary to meet with detectives there on Friday and went to Jones' address, where he found a woman who identified herself as Jones' sister holding a baby.
10706
The US is also the cheapest place to buy the 38mm Apple Watch, where it costs $549 (£366) - £110 cheaper than in the UK where it’s on sale for £479.
10707
There was a Polish program to save Jews, called Zegota, and Poles caught denouncing Jews to the Nazis were even killed by the Polish resistance .
10708
An Arizona police chief has voiced his support for his officer after dashcam footage emerged of him mounting a sidewalk in his speeding police car and knocking down an armed suspect.
10709
The couple leave behind two daughters, Randa (pictured right as a baby with her father) and 20-year-old Kira Speidel .
They were later found wandering outside.
10710
The earthquake caused a 'sharp jolt' to be felt in the San Fernando Valley (pictured) north of Los Angeles .
It happened around 9.17pm and reverberated across the city.
10711
Di Maria wears the No 7 shirt at Manchester United following his £60million from Real Madrid last summer .
10712
Laura and Paul ran the first half of the marathon separately before meeting half way round at St Katharine Docks for the ceremony which was witnessed by 80 guests.
10713
Eddie Hearn has insisted his £1.5million purse offer to Carl Frampton comes with no strings attached, but efforts to make a super-fight with Scott Quigg remain deadlocked.
10714
Museum of Modern Art in New York .
You just won't be able to take one of yourself as if your arms were nine feet long,' a Churchill Downs spokesman said.
10715
'I don't look at it as me sharing Adam, it's me sharing myself with Adam and Jane,' Brooke told intrigued presenters Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford.
10716
The Manchester United target, who scored an emphatic 19 goals in 25 league games so far this season, has been tipped to join one of Europe's big boys after impressing in the Eredivisie.
10717
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has said he hopes Burnley escape relegation after seeing his side have to fight to gain a narrow 1-0 victory at Turf Moor.
10718
Dick Advocaat says Jermain Defoe’s wonder goal has set Sunderland on their way to Premier League survival – but Newcastle goalkeeper Tim Krul has been criticised for appearing to congratulate the derby match-winner.
10719
Forecasters said 57 million people were at an 'enhanced risk' of seeing storms nearby, including residents in Chicago, Detroit and St. Louis, as well as those in Memphis, Tennessee, and Little Rock, Arkansas.
10720
Mother-of-three Georgina Rojas-Medina, 41, was shot and killed by her common-law husband, Gerardo Tovar, 44, who then turned the gun on himself on Saturday night, according to police in Tulare, California .
10721
Per person, per day .
Ilze rides into the clouds as pedal power takes her and Pablo through eastern Europe and towards Asia, their next continent .
10722
While on the campaign trail, Miriam Clegg (left) claimed her husband (right) and his party had 'put country above party' and endured 'great personal cost'
10723
'I speak with Leroy Fer and Tim Krul about England a lot.
Wijnaldum (right) says he speaks to Holland international team-mates Leroy Fer and Tim Krul about England .
10724
Mr Clegg warned that the SNP wanted to reopen 'old wounds' from the divisive independence referendum campaign that had strained families, friendships and communities.
10725
And that was where the magic pencil line came to his rescue.
Rose tees off at the 18th as he now sits joint third, seven shots behind runaway leader Jordan Spieth .
10726
Former world champion Ken Doherty launched a spirited fightback to lead snooker's top woman player Reanne Evans 5-4 at the interval of their World Championship first qualifying round match in Sheffield.
10727
George Groves took to Instagram to show off his winning bet that Badou Jack would beat Anthony Dirrell by a points decision or via a technical one during their WBC world super-middleweight title fight .
10728
Ambitious: Renderings of the project show an arc-shaped platform with villas and artificial reefs and fish shelters underneath .
Private island:
10729
By September 2013 - exactly two years after his suicide attempt - Nathan had dropped 14 stone, and has spent the last year dedicating his time to building the perfect body.
10730
It has been revealed the blue-eyed, Australian doctor who's been hailed the 'new face' of the latest Islamic State propaganda videos was reportedly a 'womaniser' who was thought to be a 'pretty normal guy'.
10731
It has been a frustrating night for Salford City, the club Scholes co-owns with former Manchester United team-mates Ryan Giggs, Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Nicky Butt.
10732
Hamilton, pictured driving during final practice in Malaysia, says the last Grand Prix was a 'tough weekend' He won last year in China and will be hoping for more joy in Shanghai this weekend .
10733
John Higgins narrowly defeated Judd Trump 5-4 to move into the quarter-finals of the China Open, where he will face home favourite and defending champion Ding Junhui.
10734
John Potter (pictured), from Savannah, has admitted forging the picture with his brother in the 1980s and placing the picture in a frame which now holds a picture of his dead dog .
10735
A new survey by Lord Ashcroft had the Tories on 36 per cent, with Labour trailing on 30 per cent, Ukip on 11 per cent and the Lib Dems on 9 per cent .
10736
An outraged food blogger who alleges Instagram fitness star Ashy Bines used her recipes in an e-book without crediting her or asking if she could publish them in a book said she was 'devastated' to find her work had been taken.
10737
David Billing, 48, has told how he had to undergo 14 hours of surgery at Royal Derby Hospital, during which surgeons sawed through his jawbone and removed part of his tongue.
10738
In a wide-ranging interview with the Daily Telegraph, he hit out at Baroness Doreen Lawrence, the mother of race murder victim Stephen, for following what he claimed was the approach of US civil rights leaders after Martin Luther King's death by 'treating blacks as victims'.
10739
Kevin Pietersen can resurrect his Test career and prove axed England boss Paul Downton was wrong to sack him last year, according to Chris Tremlett.
10740
Instead of almond marzipan, Watters' modern update has pistachio marzipan, and the cake is decorated with orange zest and edible rose petals .
10741
For Duncan,  these episodes included -  feeling like a bad mother,  suffering a marriage breakdown, her mother  passing away and then her marriage to Steve Mason taking an unexpected turn for the worse.
10742
Gayle, pictured in 2012, will be hoping to win Royal Challengers Bangalore's first-ever IPL crown this year .
Accompanied with the caption: 'Current situation...
10743
Simeone, who takes Atletico to rivals Real Madrid for a Champions League quarter-final second leg on Wednesday night, thinks this season’s failure should spark a response from the Premier League’s top clubs.
10744
Asked who taught Malia how to drive, first lady Michelle Obama told celebrity chef and daytime talk-show host Rachael Ray in an interview that it was the armed agents who provide around-the-clock security for the family.
10745
Britain struck oil in the Falklands yesterday, a discovery likely to escalate already heightened tensions with Argentina over the ownership of the islands.
10746
Tennis star Caroline Wozniacki was forced to defend herself after she congratulated American golf sensation Jordan Spieth on Twitter following his Masters success.
10747
Diego Simeone and Carlo Ancelotti both hailed Atletico Madrid goalkeeper Jan Oblak, who made a string of excellent saves to keep Real Madrid at bay.
10748
Chourdary made headlines last month when it emerged he had been invited to speak at the Oxford Union despite being on police bail on suspicion of being a member of a banned terror group.
10749
Debbie Spivey Izo (left), an American divorcee in her 60s whom he dated before his marriage and Lynne Moore (right) who says she has been invited to 'half a dozen dinners'
10750
A study of 40 men and women found drinking a glass of wine makes you more attractive to the opposite sex... ...but too much booze leads to 'excessive and unattractive' changes in facial expressions, like Bridget Jones .
10751
In What Kind Of Man Are You?, AleXsandro Palombo is hoping to send out a more serious message with his latest work, as he asks women to share their thoughts on machismo by writing them on pairs of pants and sharing via social media.
10752
Shiite rebels chant slogans as they hold up their weapons during a demonstration against an arms embargo imposed by the U.N. Security Council on Houthi leaders, in Sanaa, Yemen on Thursday .
10753
The EA Sports Team of the Year (left) and the PFA Team of the Year award, which was announced on Sunday .
It measures a player's contribution to the success of his team.
10754
A wallaby has been caught on camera delivering a swift jab to an unsuspecting wombat who invaded his personal space while he was grazing in a Victorian National Park.
10755
Founded by the Australian-born evangelical preacher Neville Cooper - now known by the name Hopeful Christian - Gloriavale is home to around 500 residents, sometimes known as Cooperites, who wear a plain, blue uniform and reject birth control.
10756
Detectives are desperately searching for the teen and Carl Garry Chapman, 32, who is believed to be the victim's former boyfriend.
10757
To address this discrepancy, scientists believe that Earth was hit by a body that was the size of Mars - but like Mercury in its composition - early in its life.
10758
The German newspaper Bild report that Klopp has told Dortmund chief executive Hans-Joachim Watzke he wants to leave after seven years at the Westfalenstadion.
10759
Juventus and Liverpool are interested in signing Chelsea 23-year-old midfielder Oscar .
Brazil coach Dunga (pictured) revealed the Chelsea midfielder reminds him of Roberto Baggio .
10760
In a letter to the City of Knox council, the CEO of RSPCA SA Tim Vasudeva, wrote an offer to assess and then possibly rehabilitate and rehome Izzy at no cost to the council instead of seeing her destroyed.
10761
But as he tended the victim – Alan Tretheway, 67 – Mr Bell was struck by a Toyota driven by mother-of-three Iram Shahzad.
10762
Muller celebrates his goal in Bayern's 3-0 Bundesliga win over Eintracht Frankfurt at the weekend .
April 15 Porto (A) Champions League Quarter-final, first leg .
10763
Strictly  has again come out on top against ITV rivals X Factor and Britain’s Got Talent, both of which have again been snubbed .
10764
Rob MacFarlane captured photos of the raccoon on his crane after it climbed about 213 meters up.
The crane operator said: 'It's not unusual.
10765
Winds of at least 100km/h lashed parts of the east coast, causing this tree to fall on a car in East Gosford, on the NSW Central Coast, on Monday with a driver and passenger inside.
10766
The father of two British jihadis who were killed while fighting in Syria has left the UK and travelled to Libya in a bid to find his eldest son and bring him home.
10767
During Beyonce and Jay Z's vegan diet,  the singers posted pictures of their meals, which included mac'n'cheese and portobello mushrooms to Beyonce's Instagram account .
10768
The Lib Dem leader's wife said the party's MPs 'deserve' to be re-elected in May after putting the country above their party for five years 'at great personal cost'.
10769
Tire changer Todd Phillips, a front-outside tire changer for Dayle Coyne Racing, was injuried when he was struck by the car of Francesco Dracone, who had come in on Lap 25 for tires and fuel .
10770
The male animal, which was eventually captured with a dart gun, was first seen by a local walking his dog in the park near the Church of the Holy Apostles at 28th Street and Ninth Avenue in Chelsea.
10771
Sources suggest the family of American hostage Dr Warren Weinstein, who was killed during a US drone strike in January, gave money to his kidnappers.
10772
No to execution: The family of Boston Marathon bombing victim Martin Richard wrote an op-ed in the Boston Globe, saying they oppose the death penalty for convicted terrorist Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
10773
Roberto Martinez will hold talks with Romelu Lukaku after the striker’s new agent suggested he could leave Everton as soon as this summer.
10774
This fascinating picture shows Sleep Street in Bristol at the dawn of photography, believed to have been taken between 1850 and 1855 .
10775
Holly Littlefield, 16, was arrested and held in a police cell for 14 hours after Zoe Gregory, 26, hijacked her email account to issue the threat to blow up the school.
10776
In place: The painting, titled 'Bomb Damage,' was drawn on a metal door that formed the last remaining part of a two-story house belonging to the Dardouna family in northern Gaza .
10777
Booked: Goodwin, Genev .
Celtic's James Forrest (left) tussles for the ball with St Mirren's Jeroen Tesselaar (right) on Friday night .
10778
The petition: The move comes in response to an online petition posted on the White House website following the death of 17-year-old Leelah Alcorn with over 120,000 signatures .
10779
Miss Langley is currently in Bangkok recovering at a hotel post-surgery, but has remained active on her social media accounts, posting videos on Snapchat and sharing snaps on Instagram.
10780
'It comes from confusing the number of different people using Trussell Trust food banks in a year with the number of times they use the food banks.'
10781
‘Mayweather is undefeated so you have to give him a little credit for that,’ said Roach, ‘but he has picked and chosen his opponents and I don’t think he’s fought enough competition to be considered the best.
10782
In a serious bid to slim down Lizzi began cooking healthier meals and joining fitness and self-defense classes which saw her lose over 7st.
10783
Benteke's goals - which arrived in a memorable 3-3 draw at Villa Park - moved Belgium above France (46 goals) and within 19 of second-placed Spain (67 goals).
10784
Ms Prosser said she came to the debate ‘with an open mind’ but ‘now I feel that a lot of it was prepared, in a way that they could make themselves look good’
10785
O'Sullivan is searching for his sixth world title this year at the Crucible and beat Craig Steadman 10-3 in the first round.
10786
Townsville nurse Maria Sevilla and her son, Tyrone, will be forced out of the country within 28 days, after Ms Sevilla's appeal to the Immigration Department was unsuccessful.
10787
Today, the aspiring model is taking part in a show called 'The Beauty Within' by Models of Diversity at London's Olympia.
10788
Sprawling:
Chyknell Hall Estate, which comes complete with a Grade II-listed house (pictured) and five cottages, is on the market for £6million .
10789
Ed Miliband (left) can claim that 18 of the 20 Premier League clubs are in Labour consituencies; but Prime Minister David Cameron may be concerned at the Conservatives' lack of Blues in the top flight .
10790
They want to play at the top level of the game and if you’re not in the Champions League it makes it difficult for you.
But Liverpool is a great club.
10791
The UK has five endangered mammals, but these are almost exclusively marine mammals such as seals and whales that have come under threat from over fishing, including the blue whale, the fin whale, the sei whale and the North Atlantic right whale .
10792
The goal has 6m bluestone walls surrounding it and operated as maximum security prison until 1891.
In 1891 the prison was turned into a butter factory and now it’s a unique home packed with original features including wooden beams and solid Jika prison doors.
The quaint one bedroom cottage covers a tiny 63 square metres .
10793
The love story it tells was unknown until 2000, when a British Library curator made a thrilling discovery: more than 100 letters exchanged between Brooke and an art student called Phyllis Gardner, together with her secret memoir of their relationship, written in 1918.
10794
Big hit: Keurig Green Mountain has also made $4.7 billion in revenue, and 1/3 of homes in the US reportedly feature single-serve coffee machines
10795
Rochdale Labour councillor Shakil Ahmed, pictured on his Facebook page with Labour Leader Ed Miliband just weeks before his son tried to cross into ISIS controlled Syria
10796
Jo Gilchrist, 27, will spend the rest of her life in a wheelchair caring for son Tommy after catching a serious infection from using her best friend's make up brush .
10797
Hatem al-Dimashqi, an activist based in an area just south of Damascus, said the Yarmouk camp (pictured) witnessed sporadic clashes and shelling earlier today .
10798
Juventus defender Patrice Evra has revealed that Sir Alex Ferguson told him he would make a great coach one day during his time at Manchester United.
10799
Tony Pulis believes Joey Barton 'probably had a point' when claiming West Bromwich Albion's players 's*** themselves' during defeat to Queens Park Rangers earlier this season.
10800
KFC has been forced to apologize to a shocked family after one of its restaurants in Oklahoma broadcast a steamy sex scene while they were tucking into their dinner .
10801
Mr Smith, 52, lives in a 13-bedroom mansion in Shropshire, which comes complete with its own swimming pool, snooker room, pub, five grand reception rooms, dancefloor, helicopter bed and 30 acres of countryside .
10802
Graeme Oxby documented the dedicated fans at events including Europe's Tribute to Elvis in Blackpool, The Elvis Weekender in Bridlington, East Riding of Yorskshire, and The European Elvis Championships in Birmingham.
10803
Witness: 'She put gas on her and put a match on her,' horrified neighbor Mike Davis said . The home: When paramedics arrived at Wright's Sacramento home, the seven-year-old girl was covered in serious burns and was rushed to the hospital .
10804
Fraud:
Doomed:
The Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed into a remote region of the French Alps en route to Dusseldorf from Barcelona .
10805
Bhadreshkumar Chetanbhai Patel, 24, is on the run after allegedly beating his wife to death with a kitchen knife on April 12 at a Dunkin' Donuts in Maryland where they both worked .
10806
Erik de Vries, 24, and Josephine Egberts, 22, were separated back in 1999 after their parents' messy break-up, after which their father took Erik and his twin brother Maarten to Belgium and their mother stayed with Josephine in their native Netherlands, reports DatingSiteKiezen.
10807
Exotic:
Turtles packed in a container:
The suspect denied intending to sell the animals on the black market, claiming they were 'for future breeding'
10808
This was the case in Hallett Cove, South Australia, when a man smacked a huge wolf spider as it scuttled across his kitchen floor.
10809
Photos provided to MailOnline Travel by a Live India journalist show the plane tilting to the left, with its left engine touching the runway and its emergency slides deployed.
10810
'These items were given -- not sold -- to the original collector, Allen Eaton, because he wanted to display them in an exhibition that would help tell the story of the incarceration of 120,000 innocent people,' reads a Change.org petition .
10811
Adult bull sharks can grow up to 11.5ft long, live up to 16 years in the wild, and along with great whites and tiger sharks, are said to be the most likely species to attack humans .
10812
Royal Baby Gaga ice cream is made by The Licktators with donated breast milk - screened in line with hospital standards - and blended with Madagascan Vanilla.
10813
Barca prevailed with a narrow 85-80 victory in the Euro League contest.
Neymar's sister Rafaella (left) headed to watch El Clasico of basketball with the Barcelona forward .
10814
Hazard will contest the PFA Player of the Year gong with Chelsea team-mate Diego Costa, Harry Kane, Alexis Sanchez, David de Gea and Philippe Coutinho.
10815
In the next shot, the estate agents are seen entering another bedroom, at which point marbles begin spilling violently out of one of the top cabinets, which is again met with hilarious reactions.
10816
Stock photo .
Professor Tazeen Jafar, of Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore (Duke-NUS), designed and supervised a study to find behaviour associated with hypertension in a young adult population in South East Asia.
10817
Entrepreneur Haluk Murat Demirel opened the country's first online sex shop for Muslims, selling everything from lubricants to herbal aphrodisiacs and offering advice on how to have 'halal' sex.
10818
Hudson, who was briefly married to Phyllis Gates from 1955 to 1958, would never publicly come out of the closet before his death, though many of his closets friends, including Elizabeth Taylor and Marilyn Monroe, were said to have known about his lifestyle.
10819
Manchester United duo Marcos Rojo and Angel di Maria celebrated their 3-1 triumph over Aston Villa by flying out to Lisbon on Easter Sunday.
10820
Sytsma, 46, was attacked by two cane corsos last July in Metamora Township, 45 miles northwest of Detroit.
He was rushed to a local hospital but soon died of his injuries.
10821
Aston Villa vs Queens Park Rangers (Villa Park) Team news .
Aston Villa have won five and drawn one of their six Premier League games against the Hoops at Villa Park.
10822
Dani Alves insists he is yet to sign a pre-contract agreement with another club following rumours that the Brazilian is set to quit Barcelona this summer.
10823
Metal detector enthusiast Bill Ladd found the missing dog tags after a storm last year, returning them to the vet's son, William Benn of Rhode Island .
10824
The woman accused of painting red and white stripes on her £15million Kensington townhouse in a bitter planning row  is a war hero's daughter worth as much as £60million who has fallen out with her family over inheritance.
10825
'In fact there were federation presidents who ensured me they would vote for me but they were reluctant to saying this out loud because they feared reactions against them, their federations and even their countries,' said Figo.
10826
And now Airbus is set to introduce an extra seat to each row of its Airbus A380 model, squeezing yet more passengers onto each plane.
10827
The trial at Manchester Crown Court (pictured) heard how the elaborate fraud involved cars and vans being deliberately driven into the side of buses so 'injured' passengers - who were mainly friends and relatives in on the scam - could falsely claim from insurers .
10828
He was remanded in custody to appear in Melbourne Magistrates Court at a later date .
The man was remanded in custody to appear in Melbourne Magistrates Court at a later date .
10829
Living near congested roads with high levels of air pollution can cause ‘silent strokes’ which increase the risk of dementia, scientists have warned.
10830
'Wins have been hard to come by - or certainly harder to come by - and it's a big jump in quality but I think slowly but surely we're refocusing on what the job is, learning as we go and delivering good performances.
10831
Accused of murder and rape: Sergey Burkaev, 16 (left) and Konstantin Surkov, 17, could be jailed for life .
If convicted, Surkov and Burkaev face life in jail.
10832
A court in Richmond, Virginia, has ruled that even though Joyce Rosemary Bruce impregnated herself using a turkey baster and Robert Preston Boardwine's sperm, he still has parental rights .
10833
Former Manchester United captain Roy Keane has denied committing a public order offence in an alleged road-rage incident with a taxi driver.
10834
A few days ago he said that Juve is fine and that he isn't thinking of returning to Madrid; he wants continue to grow with Juve.
40 (£29) million.'
10835
1 onion, peeled and finely chopped .
50g (2oz) mushroom chopped .
Method .
40g (1 ½ oz) Cheddar cheese, grated .
Method .
2 sticks celery .
Method .
10836
Michael Pulman, 33, a care worker from Walsall,  spent £7,500 on a hair transplant to boost his self-esteem .
I think it's a price worth paying.'
10837
The ocean-going tug MV Hamal was intercepted by the frigate HMS Somerset and Border Force cutter Valiant about 100 miles east of the Aberdeenshire coast.
10838
A bear hunting salmon in Alaska eyes up his dinner as a fish leaps straight at him while swimming up stream in order to reach its breeding grounds .
10839
The Irish challenge for next week’s £1million Crabbie’s Grand National looks like being eight strong after trainer Robbie Hennessy confirmed Rubi Light a definite runner.
10840
After: Adonia became Minverva II for Swan Hellenic, serving the company for four years, and then she was Royal Princess for Princess Cruises .
10841
The inaugural top spots in the album rankings and the two top places in the singles list have been claimed by Noel Gallagher, 47.
10842
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reports that officials determined that Kendall Schler crept onto the GO! St. Louis Marathon's course last weekend after the last checkpoint, didn't record any of her times electronically along the way, and didn't run the entire 26.2 miles.
10843
The 31-year-old Argentinian has appeared as a substitute in each of the Magpies' last three games following his return from testicular cancer, and has been welcomed warmly back into the fold on and off the pitch.
10844
The country's chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies is said to be concerned at the number of children suffering from the condition, which is caused by a deficiency in vitamin D.
10845
During the course of their 2 1/2 years together, Donald Sterling had given Stiviano a Ferrari, a Bentley and a Range Rover, and paid the lion's share of a $1.8 million duplex .
'I know how he works his trickery,' she said.
10846
Well now it's possible to do both thanks to brothers Marc and Shanon Parker - who have designed and built a fantastic fleet of movie-inspired vehicles.
10847
On Thursday morning, the Kemah police announced that the girl's body had been found in the water near the marina around 9am.
Tragic:
Search:
10848
Unlike other gene-silencing tools, the CRISPR system targets the genome's source material and permanently turns off genes at the DNA level.
10849
Gareth Bale was verbally abused by supporters outside Real Madrid's training ground and slaughtered by Spanish media as he was blamed for the goalless draw in the Champions League.
10850
Pay out:
They are demanding that Oldham council pays out compensation for the problems - which have seriously curtailed their growing season.
10851
Jenny stayed at the Villa Bianchi, a comfortable farmhouse surrounded by maize fields and within easy striking distance by car of both Treviso and Venice .
10852
Analysis showed spending on women's clothes grew by 6 per cent over the last year, and 4 per cent for men's clothing.
10853
Blackburn says lessons need to be learned after his friend and colleague Paul Gambaccini (pictured) had charges against him dropped .
10854
OFF TO THE RACES:
Clinton's Concord stop was a 7:00 dinner event at the sprawling home of former New Hampshire state Senate President Sylvia Larsen.
10855
Former California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger became the latest celebrity to speak out against Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, calling it a 'distracting' law that only hurts the Republican Party .
10856
Mr Cameron has previously accused Nigel Farage supporters of being 'fruitcakes and loonies' ‘To keep generating the jobs and the growth our country needs, come back to us, come back home to us,’ he pleaded.
10857
After the CIRC report was published in March, Cookson, said he would write to Verbruggen to ask him to step down as honorary president saying he had made 'serious errors of judgment and wrong decisions'.
10858
John applies the time tested 'baby in a bucket' pose to a little puppy (l) - the photographer is seen on a farm with his camera (r)
10859
Arsene Wenger branded the 'circus' surrounding Klopp's departure as 'ridiculous' 'I'm not an agency to place managers,' said Wenger, when asked about Klopp's announcement.
10860
Kim Jong-un has ordered the recreation of the famous 'pleasure troupe' of young women that North Korean leaders have traditionally employed to entertain them.
10861
A soldier and a poet: Asia Siddiqui (right), one of the two woman arrested in Queens, NY on Thursday for plotting a terrorist attack had previously published a poem in an Al Qaeda magazine, it was revealed.
10862
By sleeping with your hair and fringe down, the oils from your locks (not to mention the greasy hairspray and serums you've used in the day) are kept well away from your face.
10863
The dog can provide companionship for the child, as well as social and emotional support for the parent to bring joy and 'brightness' to the household (stock picture)
10864
David Luiz should not play in central defence again after his horror show in PSG's 3-1 defeat against Barcelona, according to former England boss Glenn Hoddle.
10865
Long-time rider Melanie Maddocks, a 54-year-old self-employed carer from Barnstable, Devon, says rocketing costs drove her to give away her beautiful 14-year-old cob, Connie, who she couldn’t afford alongside her other horse, Flossie.
10866
The world's third-largest joint ship, owned by Royal Caribbean, is expecting more than 80,000 people to travel on board this summer.
Making waves:
10867
After belting out Human Nature to Drake at Coachella on Sunday night, Madonna pulled the 28-year-old singer back to plant a kiss on his lips, making out with him for at least three seconds.
Visit site .
10868
Messenger is currently 18 miles (29.1km) above Mercury after Nasa engineers used the last of its fuel in a last ditch effort to push the spacecraft higher into orbit after it dropped to within nine miles (15km) of the surface.
10869
Mr al-Saadi has fought a legal battle against the British Government claiming it was complicit in kidnapping him and sending him back to his homeland to be tortured by the Gaddafi regime .
10870
Super Bowl champions New England Patriots will begin the 2015 NFL season at home to the Pittsburgh Steelers on Thursday, September 10.
10871
The Conservatives have pledged to return Britain to the black in 2018-19 with a surplus of £5.2billion – the first since 2001.
10872
I love God and I don't believe God takes sides (in fights).
Geroge Foreman is down on count two after being struck by Muhammad Ali's killer right-hander in 1974 .
10873
The inscriptions were found in Naours - a two-hour drive north of Paris - and left for posterity by young men facing the horror of trench warfare a few dozen miles away at the Somme.
10874
And beyond the length and color of Rita's hair, Chris is determined to ensure that her style is always fresh, unique and interesting, and is often experimenting with different textures, embellishments and colorful accessories.
10875
Local resident Terry Rauh told MLive a fire took place at the building once before.
An investigation into what was behind the blaze continues, the news outlet reported.
10876
Japanese authorities detected an unusually high level of radiation around playground equipment in this Tokyo park (pictured)
10877
Blackpool marked their relegation into Sky Bet League One with a 1-1 draw against Reading, but the fireworks were restricted to outside of Bloomfield Road as long-suffering supporters held protests against Seasiders chairman Karl Oyston.
10878
When Trotter died in 2013, Cantu helped head a non-profit called the Trotter Project to mentor high school and college students and which raised money to keep Trotter's restaurant open.
10879
'We've compiled the best parenting tips to know before having a baby to help you sift through the mounds of parenting advice you're going to get,' reads the accompanying description.
10880
Officer Jared Forsyth with the Ocala Police Department was wearing a bulletproof vest during the training exercise Monday, but the round entered through his arm and went through his chest, police said .
10881
The attack comes a day after Turkish prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, 46, died in hospital after members of the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) stormed a courthouse and took him hostage.
10882
A well-known Spanish band from Catalonia, called Sidonie, sang an impromptu song aboard a Ryanair flight .
Ryanair, however, wasn't as impressed with the band's performance.
10883
The FBI and NYPD said on Wednesday that a reward of up to $115,000 is being offered for information leading to an arrest and conviction in the March 2008 bombing at the Times Square military recruitment station.
10884
Mrs Saunders said it was her job to make 'very difficult decisions', but the Lord Janner row showed no sign of abating last night.
10885
'While now controlled by epilepsy medication, I still suffer bizarre attacks, with loss of vision, hearing impairment, vertigo and headaches, which occur sometimes daily or with gaps of several days or weeks,' he says.
10886
Boss Tim Sherwood backed Christian Benteke to fire Aston Villa to safety after the striker's crucial hat-trick saved a point against QPR.
10887
Mrs Malcolm, originally from Dundee in Scotland, was found on Sunday morning at the Capri Mews complex in the Marina Da Gama area of the city (pictured)
10888
A judge has ruled the controversial number plate that led to Jeremy Clarkson and his Top Gear colleagues being thrown out of Argentina was a deliberate reference to the 1982 Falklands War .
10889
Ronny Deila is preparing for the William Hill Scottish Cup semi-final against Inverness, believing Celtic themselves provide the biggest hurdle to their treble hopes.
10890
Hoping to raise the same level of global awareness about his own condition, Dorian decided to send his Ganz Webkinz bear, called Tikko, out into the world, carrying with him a message of understanding and tolerance for those affected by autism.
10891
Arthur Townsend, who lives in a care home in Epping, Essex, poured the product over a Mercedes Sprinter belonging to Martin Carter - the son of his friend Olive Carter, 96.
10892
The user who submitted the name Orgasm wrote: 'As the daughter of a labor and delivery nurse, I've heard an abundance of terrible baby names, but I'd have to say this is by far the worst!
10893
In separate interviews with police, both Adrian's mother and Tyrrell  said that the boy started acting strange the day before, after Tyrrell put the boy in a time out for not eating his lunch.
10894
Rangers dropped points against Livingston by drawing 1-1 with the Scottish Championship strugglers .
He said: 'I'll be there on Wednesday with my Livingston scarf on.
10895
Speaking in Coventry this morning, Labour leader Ed Miliband claimed the 200-year-old 'non dom' rule makes Britain an 'offshore tax haven for a few' and can 'no longer be justified'
10896
‘You opened your mouth to allow him to put the pliers in,’ said Mr Antunovic.
Hansen's lawyer said the woman had not objected to Hansen extracting her teeth with pliers .
10897
Mrs Parry said she had no idea her daughter (pictured left and right with her mother, aged three months) had been taking slimming pills until she arrived at A&E to be told by doctors she had died .
10898
The letter, titled 'Advance notice of possible Chelsea football Club parade on Monday, May 25', reads: 'I am writing to give you early notice of a Victory Parade that will take place in Fulham if Chelsea Football Club wins the Premier League.
10899
A weakening U.S. economy spilled into the job market in March as employers added just 126,000 jobs 0the fewest since December 2013 – snapping a 12-month streak of gains above 200,000.
10900
The FA has decided not to bid for FIFA tournaments while Blatter is still in power following England's failed bid for 2018, but is eyeing a bid for the European Championship in 2028.
10901
But not only has Falcao failed to score since January 31 against Leicester, he has also failed to have a shot on target in the Premier League - featuring in 10 games since.
10902
Shannon Eastin became the first woman to officiate a regular season NFL game in 2012 when she was used as a replacement ref in the September 2012 game between the St Louis Rams and the Detroit Lions.
10903
The video concludes with the lion looking well and truly fed up as it lies on the ground, exhausted by its failed attempts to break free.
10904
And the Southampton defender, who is being tracked by Manchester United and Chelsea, has fuelled talk that he could quit St Mary's this summer by insisting he wants to play Champions League football.
10905
In a victim impact statement, Mr Evans, said: 'I believe that the man who robbed me should be punished for attacking a 93 year-old pensioner.
10906
'She stated at first she thought it was the 18-year-old from earlier, but then realized it was the 16-year-old who was in fact her daughter's boyfriend,' Lehnardt's sponsor told deputies.
10907
A 63-year-old former air hostess has won a £14.5m London mansion from her 'immensely wealthy' 90-year-old Saudi Arabian ex-husband following a legal battle based on a Victorian law.
10908
Importantly, the babies shown the magic tricks were more interested in playing with the ball than a brand new toy that they had never seen before.
10909
The city of Eugene in the United States has been awarded the rights to host the 2021 IAAF World Championships.
10910
Dusty rides around the property in the back of Mr Stewart's truck along with the dogs, sleeps with them on a dog bed, eats with them, asks for scratches, and even tries to sneak dog treats when he can.
10911
Iraq always had gun souks but the  growing number of local markets catering to the needs of new Islamic State recruits remains deeply worrying.
10912
Conrad Clitheroe, 54 and Gary Cooper, 45, from Stockport, along with their ex-pat friend Neil Munro were stopped by police for writing down aircraft registration numbers at Fujairah Airport.
10913
Adam Johnson leaves Peterlee police station on Thursday after being charged .
Johnson leaves the Peterlee police station on Thursday after learning of the charges against him .
10914
Frank Ernest Shepherd, III of Houston, Texas, led police on a high-speed chase after being pulled over for a traffic stop that ended when he slammed into another vehicle .
10915
Under normal circumstances the Australian Turf Club would've been packed with punters dressed to the nines scrambling for a seat, but as early racegoers Susie Pleasance and Helen Quarrel learned, the field was absolutely empty.
10916
As the confrontation became tense, bar staff came over to tend to the shouting men (above one member of staff tries to stop the 'fake service member') after the young man asked for his Geneva Conventions Identification Card .
10917
Cavani has not been as instrumental to the club's fortunes this season as he was last year but came off the bench to score twice against Bastia in Saturday's League Cup final win.
10918
The family of a young Italian woman who was killed in a horror car crash in Perth are pleading with the Australian public to help them as they cannot afford to bring her body home to be buried.
10919
Discovered in an elaborate grave in the El Mirón cave in Cantabria, Spain, the remains are thought to belong to a 35 to 40-year-old woman who was buried around 18,700 years ago.
10920
Following the 2004 tsunami this member of the Sentinelese tribe was photographed firing an arrow at an Indian Coast Guard helicopter .
10921
'When we met Rachel Zoe we were wearing an amazing Australian designer Natasha Fagg and she came up to us and was like ‘"I love what you’re wearing, you girls look so crazy,"' says Jess.
10922
Titanic (above) sank with the loss of 1,522 lives four hours after it struck on iceberg at 10.20pm on April 14 .
4pm:
8pm:
April 14:
4am:
10923
‘But I know exactly what my jacket measurements are and I know exactly what [dinner] I would choose.
Because I think I’ll win a claret jug, and I think I’ll win a green jacket.
10924
Devoted wife Wei Guiyi, 76, has guided her blind hubby Huang Funeng, 80, around with a bamboo pole in their small village in southern China for 30 years since he lost his sight to a degenerative eye condition.
10925
He posted the photo on Twitter saying: '12 weeks .. 12st 12 .. 12.4% bodyfat @JoshMchale.'
The Match of the Day pundit took part in the BBC's Strictly Come Dancing with Ola Jordan .
10926
Gianluigi Buffon was celebrated reaching the Champions League semi-finals, 12 years after final heartbreak .
We play with our heads now and are a mature team, I'd say.'
10927
Michael Shepard, 35, conned parents into letting him babysit their kids and was frequently seen riding around the neighborhood with children on his scooter, authorities say.
10928
Successful: Keane, from Hale, Cheshire, enjoyed a trophy-laden career with Manchester United - winning seven league titles.
10929
Today Mark Sanders is a doctor and lawyer in Fort Worth Texas.
Hamm is yet to comment but a friend told Star: 'The hazing incident was an isolated incident in Jon's life.
10930
Javier Hernandez is undroppable on current form, says Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti.
'He's enjoying the period that he's in, it's a really good one,' said Ancelotti of Hernandez.
10931
Dutch national Sjaak Rijke (seen, above, in a video in August 2012 while being held hostage by an Al Qaeda splinter group) has been rescued by French special forces nearly four years after being captured in Mali .
10932
Miranda Ashley Calvin, 19, of Gresham, Oregon, was arrested on Sunday afternoon after allegedly hitting a woman with her car and fleeing the scene .
10933
This amount, thanks to the success of television events like Shark Week, shows like the once popular Here Comes Honey Boo and his running of networks like OWN, makes him one of the highest paid television executives.
This thanks to shows like the once popular Here Comes Honey Boo (left) and his running of networks like Oprah Winfrey's OWN (right) Discovery has also done well thanks to the success of television events like Shark Week .
10934
Memphis moved into a tie for the second seed in the NBA's Southwest Division with a 100-92 win over Oklahoma City on Friday, with the Grizzlies defence shutting down Thunder star Russell Westbrook.
10935
Pupils applying to Cambridge University may have to take an entrance test next year for the first time in almost 30 years.
10936
Vowing to cling on:
Nick Clegg yesterday vowed to cling on as Liberal Democrat leader even if the party is wiped out at the polls.
10937
David Luiz posted an Instagram picture sporting a new hairdo in the style of a man bun on Wednesday .
10938
Chloe Jackson, 19, appeared on today's This Morning to talk about how Facebook makes her feel lonely .
10939
When the remains were first uncovered they were stained with a sparking red material, later found to be red ochre from a haematite crystal .
10940
Chelsea have made an offer for FC Tokyo's 22-year-old forward Yoshinori Muto, according to club president Naoki Ogane.
International caps (Japan): 11 .
10941
Residents of the caravan park said that one of the biggest problems in the park stemmed from drugs and alcohol abuse.
10942
Dortmund are keen to bring in Sami Khedira from Real Madrid as their new captain amid a summer of big changes following Jurgen Klopp's announcement that he will leave the club at the end of the season.
10943
The poll puts David Cameron and the Tories at 31.8 per cent of the vote, with Labour at just one tenth of a percentage point behind, with 31.7 per cent.
10944
The installation of the lights will also allow Van Gaal, who famously spends hours on the training ground, extra time to work with his charges in the notoriously bleak Manchester winters.
10945
One million men are now actively choosing to work part-time as they become more involved in childcare or retire gradually.
10946
Jake Castner, from Ballarat in Victoria, went into hiding last week after a warrant was issued for his arrest in relation to a string of thefts.
On 6 April, he begged for a lift to hospital and asked for his mother’s phone number. ‘Just got raided who can give me a lift might have to go hospital what’s my mums number?
10947
Hillary Rodham Clinton took aim at Republicans on Monday for latching on to a new book that details sweetheart deals she allegedly made between foreign governments and the U.S. State Department in exchange for speaking fees and donations to her family foundation.
10948
Distressed relatives of students wait outside the Barcelona high school where a 13-year-old boy allegedly shot and killed a teacher using a crossbow, and injuring four people .
10949
Herrera netted a brace against Aston Villa on Saturday afternoon without actually looking at Brad Guzan's goal as his eyes appeared to be shut when making contact with the ball.
10950
The Fanuc CR-35iA claims to be the first 'heavy-lifting industrial collaborative robot' to work with human employees without the need for safety fences.
10951
Mrs Cappuccini, who was affectionately called ‘Mrs Coffee’ by her pupils, taught five and six-year-olds at Offham Primary School, near West Malling, also in Kent.
10952
In his self-motivational notes, Labour leader Mr Miliband (pictured above during the debate as Natalie Bennet speaks)  wrote the words ‘negative’ and ‘positive’ connected by an arrow as well as the term 'Happy Warrior'
10953
This follows a failed social media campaign last month, during which SeaWorld organised a Q&A on Twitter using the hashtag #AskSeaWorld.
10954
Mumia Abu-Jamal (left) is a former Black Panther serving life in prison for the 1981 murder of white Philadelphia police Officer Daniel Faulkner (right). His conviction was upheld through years of appeals, but his death sentence was converted to life in prison in 2012 .
10955
Last Friday, 26-year-old Lance Futch donned a white wrinkled polo shirt and drove to Hill Air Force Base in Utah thinking he was going to be led into an auditorium to talk about how to help veterans get more jobs in the infinitely abundant field of solar energy.
10956
The decisive goal at Vicarage Road came in the 56th minute when substitute Ikechi Anya crossed from the left and Cathcart sent a fine volleyed finish into the top corner past goalkeeper Darren Randolph.
10957
But the song belong to a strap-toothed whale, a southern bottlenosed whale or a Gray’s beaked whale (pictured), according to the study, despite the sound being the wrong frequency for a Gray’s beaked whale .
10958
American YouTube user KentuckyFriedIdiot filmed himself teaching his newborn daughter how to suck a plastic water bottle.
Home tutoring:
10959
The computer model compared the orbit of Annama (pictured), a 1,100lb (500kg) rock, with the evolution of a dozen orbits of near-Earth asteroids .
10960
Countryfile presenter Ellie Harrison said that she completely 'accepts' that she will one day be replaced on the BBC show.
I accept that and I know that.'
10961
Anais admits to loving the moment she leaves the plane, saying: 'Your brain stops thinking' Anais, who has posed for Playboy, also models bikinis for magazines like GQ .
10962
Users also shared their responses.
Andrew Odell tweeted Aldi a series of messages after discovering the mouse inside the packaging of his loaf of bread.
10963
Sun spots are also the source of eruptions on the sun, mainly solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs), all of which are linked to magnetic fields (a picture of a coronal mass ejection taken by Mr Ewen, pictured)
10964
Yesterday, Jean-Marie Le Pen was quoted as calling France's Spanish-born Prime Minister Manuel Valls (right)  'the immigrant' and defending Philippe Petain, leader of the war-time government that cooperated with Nazi Germany (left)
10965
Van Gaal was particularly impressed by Ings’ performance against United at Old Trafford in February when he scored in Burnley’s 3-1 defeat.
10966
Pastore scored a brace in PSG’s 3-1 win at Nice on Saturday as the Parisians reclaimed top spot in Ligue 1.
No special goals, no, but fantastic passes.
10967
Her husband Gavin Lucas, 36, walked into the church hand-in-hand with Olivia and their seven-year-old son Lloyd to one of Sgt Lucas's favourite songs - Bette Midler's 'Wind Beneath My Wings' - with the line 'did I ever tell you, you are my hero'.
10968
In October last year, Cotterill sent the victim a link to an x-rated explicit video with a message that said: 'F**k it, I'm going to have it as my profile picture'.
10969
The home cook icon put her skills to the test by trawling the Aldi supermarket aisles to find healthy, fresh produce to turn into an Easter feast - including hot cross bun and Easter egg bread & butter pudding .
10970
'We're still a long way from being able to cure HIV patients, as we still need to develop and test effective vaccines, but this study takes us one step closer by showing us what type of immune responses an effective vaccine should induce.'
10971
But when the piercing became inflamed, Remmie was forced to remove the bar - and the resulting wound healed into a hazelnut-sized lump known as a keloid scar.
10972
I’ve been lucky to win championships and to win many grands prix, but now sometimes I feel happier and prouder doing the things we are doing now as a team than winning a trophy.
10973
The Local Government Association warned they may not be able to create more places at the rate that is needed.
'Human right': Play can help children develop socially .
10974
McIlroy must hope for the early runners to drop shots as he's scheduled to go out in the penultimate group with Phil Mickelson and Ryan Moore at 6.48pm (BST) on Friday.
10975
he was just a great person, a great friend, he will be missed - I cannot tell you how much I will miss him.
I will miss him every day of my life.'
10976
Kane not able to stop .
England's latest star Harry Kane was recently micro-managed by the FA to not speak in media mixed zones .
10977
Lydia Millen and Ali Gordon met on Instagram after he liked one of her pictures, the pair have now been dating two years and could easily be the UK's fittest couple .
10978
Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti has moved to deny rumours he is about to leave the Santiago Bernabeu this summer, telling the Spanish media he sees himself remaining in charge of the 10-time European champions next year.
10979
Speaking this week, 28-year-old Kipsiro said he was approached last year by five female athletes at a training camp for the African Cross-Country Championships.
10980
When Ms. Fulford-Dobson visited the Skateistan facilities in 2012, she quickly noticed their confidence and the joy they took in learning.
10981
‘They were really suffering.
Whitehead is collecting more donations today and handing them this evening out at a popup shelter in Milsons Point .
10982
Fireman Stephen Hunt, 38, died after he and a colleague got into difficulties battling a fire started at Paul's Hair World in Manchester's Northern Quarter on July 13, 2013 .
10983
Just another night for an Atletico Madrid striker.
Sergio Ramos and Atletico Madrid striker Mandzukic continually clashed on Tuesday night during the tie .
10984
It has been revealed that the worst CV blunder is a spelling or grammatical mistake, with a whopping 87 per cent of the 600 employers admitting that they find it annoying.
10985
Now boasting 148,000 followers, the account relies on submissions via direct messages, and is dedicated to finding and posting images of the hottest guys with the cutest pups they can possibly find.
10986
Fashion industry commentator Lily Melrose says she is constantly inspired to try new styles by other bloggers on social media .
10987
Officials in Buzim, north west Bosnia said their home should be known as the 'Town of Twins', due to the unusually high number of multiple births.
10988
Twice the teenage winger visited the national stadium to cheer on his boyhood club in 2010 but Villa lost both times, to Manchester United in the League Cup final and Chelsea in the FA Cup final four.
10989
For the past eight years, Scott (pictured right with his son) had taught special education and social studies at Cass High School and was the school's head basketball coach .
10990
Marc Wabafiyebazu, 15, has been arrested for felony murder and his brother Jean, 17, was shot dead after an incident in which the two reportedly tried to rob a group of Miami drug dealers.
10991
Lenny Mordarski, 68, was viciously poked with the blue ballpoint before take off on the Southwest Airlines flight from Chicago to Manchester, New Hampshire on Thursday.
10992
Police are investigating claims made by a former royal footman that Clarence House aides tried to force him into an orgy in the 1970s .
10993
Rory McIlroy, who won both the PGA and the Open Championships last year, similarly had his golf clubs lost by United Airlines as he flew into Dublin ahead of the Irish Open last year.
10994
Inside the HQ of global company Moose Toys, the Cheltenham office in Melbourne comes complete with toy testing rooms, table tennis table, aerobics room, gym and a custom staff lunch room.
10995
The monstrous meat feast has two beef burgers weighing 220g, a layer of homemade bacon jam, 100g of ham chunks and a 150g whole battered and fried chicken thigh.
10996
Foley's mother Diane said that officials from President Barack Obama's administration repeatedly told her family it was illegal to try to raise a ransom to free her son, and warned that her family could face prosecution for doing so.
10997
He said: 'We cover a rural area from two sites so it is now going to prove incredibly difficult to provide a realistic, safe service for our patients, but we will endeavour to do so'
10998
Captain Wales patrols during Exercise Thunder Observer, a Joint Fire Team exercise with the 8th/12th Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery, at Robertson Barracks in Darwin, Northern Territory .
10999
Pilots fly with the Typhoon Striker helmet wired to the plane to let pilots lock onto targets with 'just a look' and a voice command.
11000
The blonde woman was then bundled into a police car - to protect her from an angry mob that had formed in the wake of the carnage, who hurled abuse and tried to attack the American.
11001
Louis van Gaal said that is a great time to be a Manchester United supporter after they crushed Manchester City 4-2 at Old Trafford on Sunday.
'It was not the best performance, because we started very badly, but we regained our confidence, scored the goals and the second half was fantastic.
11002
Prince Rahim's father Prince Shah Karim Al Hussaini is the current Aga Khan and took the title aged 20 following the death of his grandfather, Sir Sultan Muhammed Shah, Aga Khan III.
11003
Nico Rosberg will start behind pole-sitter Lewis Hamilton with Sebastian Vettel third on the grid in China .
He said: ‘It was not ideal to put me under pressure like that.
11004
Pittsburgh-based pop-up store, Less Than 100, has priced its entire stock to reflect the local gender pay gap, meaning that female customers are only charged 76 per cent of the retail price while men pay in full.
11005
Borden went on trial for brutally murdering her father and stepmother with a hatchet in their Fall River home in 1892.
11006
At the Chinese Grand Prix on Sunday, Raikkonen was reeling in team-mate Sebastian Vettel and may well have claimed third but for a late safety car.
11007
A Florida man who was high on a designer drug called Flakka stripped and ran naked through traffic in Fort Lauderdale to escape from imaginary killers who he believed stole his clothes and wanted to murder him.
11008
World No 1 Novak Djokovic became the first player to win the opening three ATP World Tour Masters 1000 events when he defeated Tomas Berdych 7-5 4-6 6-3 at Monte Carlo on Sunday.
11009
The car has a top speed of 40mph (65 km/h) and its semi-autonomous features are possible because of inbuilt cameras and a LIDAR sensor on its roof, which lets the vehicle scan its environment and locate itself in it, 10 times a second.
11010
Former Arsenal forward Andrei Arshavin is set to be released by Russian league leaders Zenit St Petersburg at the end of the season, along with veteran Ukraine midfielder Anatoly Tymoshchuk.
11011
The latest images include ones of Earth and Mars which were taken when the probe was attempting ‘gravity assist manoeuvres’ in which it used other planets to slingshot its way towards the comet.
11012
Colombian forward Dairon Asprilla scored in the 79th minute to lift the Portland Timbers past New York City FC 1-0.
11013
Crystal Palace’s XI on Monday night may only have been worth a mere £17m, but left back Martin Kelly still made it through a City defence deemed good enough to keep £40m signing Eliaquim Mangala on the bench to tee up a chance for Wilfried Zaha just 60 seconds into the game.
11014
For most people outside Scotland, this will have been their first proper view of Scotland’s First Minister.
Judy Murray said: ‘GSM Sturgeon’ (Game, Set and Match) Leader:
11015
A new Ask Reddit thread invited members of the disabled community to list all the ways able-bodied people think they are being supportive, but end up being just the opposite (picture posed by models)
11016
Unlike some superheros, Kumagai has the full support of police and even dons an armband certifying him as an official drink-drive patrolman.
11017
Lawsuit: A student expelled from GMU for violating its sexual misconduct policy is suing in federal court to clear his name, arguing that an encounter with a girlfriend was sadomasochistic role playing, not sexual assault (file)
11018
A 13-year-old Maryland boy provided firefighters with instructions during a 911 call and got himself and his little sister rescued after his family's home caught fire on Sunday morning, .
11019
Jason Gillespie has been appointed the new coach of Big Bash League side Adelaide Strikers in a move that will see him combine the role with his duties at Yorkshire.
11020
Mr Miliband said the pledge to cut stamp duty to zero over the next three years would benefit nine out of ten people buying their first home, could save up to £5,000 and would cost the Government £225million a year.
11021
On April 26. 1986, a sudden power surge at the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl, near the city of Pripyat, led to a huge explosion of the reactor which cast highly radioactive particles into the air.
11022
A Rother District Council spokesperson said it is believed that 100 people have been affected by the so-called 'winter vomiting bug' after visiting the hotel in Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex.
11023
Captain Rahmani and nine other inspirational women from across the world were awarded the U.S Secretary of State's International Women of Courage Award 2015 at a ceremony last week.
11024
Chelsea captain John Terry had come in with a strong challenge from behind on United striker Radamel Falcao which sent the Colombian hurtling to the ground.
11025
Though search parties took off from the school, they could not find Sullivan, who said after his return that he slept under the bleachers every night, police told Daily Mail Online.
11026
Smith suffered a broken leg and a dislocated ankle while attempting to block a John Arne Riise free-kick during the fifth round clash at Anfield in February 2006.
11027
People have been quick to criticise Ozil, but the German star is worth paying to watch when at his best .
Much like Gomis, Ander Herrera was another in my ‘10 To Watch’ list.
11028
Tyler MacNiven became known to millions when the aspiring filmmaker won the ninth season of The Amazing Race, and a $1million prize, and now it seems he may have used some of that money to create one epic save the date.
11029
Glen Walford (left) has been embroiled in a legal battle with Worcestershire County Council since her mother Mary (right) moved to a care home in 2006.
11030
Franck Ribery says he has no chance of playing against Borussia Dortmund this week after failing to recover from injury, and admits he 'can't even run'.
11031
Bradley, who has sued Hernandez over a February 2013 shooting incident, will be allowed to tell jurors he saw someone hand Hernandez a black Glock pistol in a Miami hotel.
11032
Tom McTevia, 42, who was left without the use of his legs following another ATV accident 11 years ago, was traveling with a group and driving his friend Tina Hoisington, 45, near an overlook at Lake Pend Oreille in Bonner County on Sunday.
11033
In spite of the thousands of emails he got begging to have photos taken down, Bollaert told investigators it was his life that had been ruined by the site .
11034
These were the heartbreaking scenes of a family being torn apart when four young sisters were dragged kicking and screaming from their mother's Sunshine Coast home in the middle of the night and forced onto a plan back to their father in Italy .
11035
Police have discovered a body they believe to be Indiana woman Samantha Fleming (left), who was reported missing with her newborn daughter Serenity (right) weeks ago in a city 180 miles away .
11036
There is better news for James Rodriguez, who is also set to return from injury, with Marca reporting that he will start for Real Madrid on Sunday, his first game for 59 days.
11037
Megan Huntsman, 40, is facing life in prison after pleading guilty to killing the six newborns, then stashing their bodies in the garage of her home in Pleasant Grove, Utah.
11038
The athlete, who has completed four other marathons, said Boston's hilly track became especially tough around mile 24, but his physical trainers found a way to keep him going.
11039
Ms Mann, 22, told Daily Mail Australia egg donation was something she'd always wanted to do, and after the birth of her son she wanted to give someone else the opportunity to experience the same 'sacred' bond.
11040
Nottingham Forest are keen on signing Blackburn striker Jordan Rhodes, but it could cost them £10m .
11041
Steve Bruce has revealed that Hull players will have their salaries slashed by up to 50 per cent if they are relegated.
11042
Ricky Hatton knows that Manny Pacquiao has the style to beat Floyd Mayweather in the Fight of the Century.
'Manny has the style to beat Floyd.
11043
But one disgruntled staff member at an anonymous firm decided to skip the pleasantries and pen an incredibly sarcastic resignation letter announcing their impending departure to bosses.
11044
Police still have no answers about exactly what happened that led to the neck injury though Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said, 'Whatever happened in the back of the van'.
Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (right, with Police Commissioner Anthony Batts) said that she is frustrated by the lack of answers given in the police report .
11045
Castro kidnapped Michelle Knight (right) in 2002 when she was 21, eight months later he kidnapped then 17-year-old Amanda Berry (left).
Prison:
11046
More legal trouble: Two students have now filed lawsuits against the Davis County School District in Utah accusing officials of failing to fire English teacher Brianne Altice, pictured in court in January, who is accused of having six with three boys .
11047
A month after seeing her GP, and feeling increasingly desperate, Julie, an administrator, who is divorced with two grown-up children, and lives in Bushey, Herts, used her private medical cover to see a spinal surgeon, Robert Lee.
11048
Listeria generally only affects the elderly, people with compromised immune systems, pregnant women and their newborn infants .
What are the symptoms?
11049
With St Mirren 10 points adrift at the foot of the table with just 15 points left to play for Motherwell will begin their quest to leapfrog Ross County out of the play-off spot with a local Friday night derby against Hamilton.
11050
Overall, the UK came 11th in the table of countries with the highest standards of prosperity, health and tolerance, putting us outside the top ten most civilised and best-off people in the world.
11051
Killed his family: Christopher Whitmore murdered his wife Melissa Ball (left), 27, and their eight-year-old son Grayden (pictured together, right) before turning the gun on himself at a gas station in Georgia last night .
11052
After counting the amount of League starts handed out by each manager to English players aged under 23, the percentage of each manager’s total starting selections shows that Mauricio Pochettino (below), of active bosses, backs young talent most.
11053
Miracle boy:
 Bullets pierced the wall of the bedroom where the 8-year-old and his 17-year-old brother were in bed at her home in Culver City .
11054
Texas was hit with more than two inches of rain and tennis ball-sized hail stones in just 15 minutes.
Originally, WFAA notes, the storm was not expected to strike Dallas.
11055
Now a snapshot NHS study reveals that on one surgical ward at a leading teaching hospital, 90 per cent of patients failed to get the correct treatment, involving a simple set of lifesaving measures known as Sepsis Six.
11056
Andrew Cole (right) took to Twitter to reveal he went out for dinner with former Manchester United team-mates Paul Scholes, Gary Neville, Ryan Giggs and Nicky Butt on Saturday night .
11057
Tulsa Police Cpl. Dave Young said: 'It was a petty argument over their cell phones, which one was better than the other' (above an Android phone left and Apple iPhones right)
11058
Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny admits he feels sorry for Adam Federici, insisting the Reading stopper was 'the best player on the pitch' despite his costly error in Saturday's FA Cup semi-final.
11059
Its report concluded too many young people were confused about how to grab hold of job opportunities.
 Cardiff-based car insurer admiral (left) employs over 5,000 people .
11060
When he first noticed him eating, Mr Blackwell told his fellow councillors: 'It appears that one of our Tory colleagues is consuming a full Sunday roast dinner in the council chamber.
11061
The car was unveiled at the Shanghai General Motors Gala Night this week (shown) Chevrolet said the car offered a ‘glimpse at mobility of the future'
11062
Manchester United legend Gary Neville has slammed their performance against Everton as 'toothless' following their 3-0 defeat on Sunday.
11063
His father Jason desperately tried to save his son's life but he died the next day in hospital.
'But it all went tragically wrong.
11064
Geoff Haigh, 61, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, wanted to marry his long-term partner Heather, 54, after being diagnosed with terminal pancreatic cancer but the couple's special day (pictured) was full of blunders .
11065
The researchers analyzed 11 rock samples from around the nearly complete Little Foot fossil skeleton from the Sterkfontein Caves to gauge its age.
11066
Sim Bhullar and the Sacramento Kings are about to make NBA history.
Sim Bhullar is set to become the NBA's first player of Indian descent with the Sacramento Kings .
11067
It was capable of flying 14 executives at a time.
Tesco spent nearly £29 million flying executives to different parts of the world between 2005 and 2012 .
11068
Liverpool boss Rodgers is keen on signing Burnley striker Danny Ings (left) and PSV's Memphis Depay (right) Belgium striker Divock Origi, pictured during his loan spell at Lille, will return to Liverpool in the summer .
11069
Hummels sat out Dortmund's 3-2 defeat of Hoffenheim in the German Cup on Tuesday night as Jurgen Klopp's side booked a place in the semi finals.
11070
Sir Bradley Wiggins and Geraint Thomas avoided being caught up in a major crash in the final kilometre of Scheldeprijs on Wednesday, but their Team Sky team-mate Elia Viviani was not so fortunate.
11071
'In all the games when I've played as a striker I have scored goals so when the manager switched over with two strikers with Arouna, that was heaven for me because I could do whatever I wanted because there was somebody next to me who had a work ethic the same as me.
11072
Mrs Hesketh went in to the Royal Albert Edward Infirmary in Wigan on October 28 last year with an infected bed sore and suspected pneumonia.
11073
Last week, questioned were raised over the police's handling of the case after CCTV footage showing the robbers at work was published in The Daily Mirror - 21 hours before they were released by Scotland Yard .
11074
Manchester City, the Gunners and Manchester United are likely to join league champions Chelsea in the Champions League, with only Liverpool, Tottenham and Southampton still within a mathematical chance of breaking the top four.
11075
Laura Loukaides, from Laura Loukaides Cakes, said: 'My egg is inspired by one of my favourite Fabergé designs - the 1914 Mosaic egg created for Nicholas II of Russia.
11076
Mrs Cameron said the best thing about campaigning was 'getting out and about - meeting amazing people like June'
'The Growing Zone is an inspiration.
11077
From Jermain Defoe's match-winning volley in the Tyne-Wear derby on Sunday, to Charlie Adam's audacious long-range effort against Chelsea on Saturday evening, there's plenty to choose from.
11078
While she admits some of the recommended  swaps like coconut oil, rice malt syrup and cacao can be expensive to begin with, once you have them, they will be on high rotation - so you get your money's worth.
11079
Miss Doyle, who suffered a ‘blunt head injury’, was pronounced dead at the scene in Newport, South Wales.
Ali, of Newport, was remanded in custody ahead of a hearing in July.
11080
Two in three women (64 per cent) feel anxious just having their photo taken, while looking at snaps on social media made 41 per cent feel bad about themselves, according to a survey of 5,000 people by market researchers OnePoll.
11081
Erica Ginnetti, 35, was referred to as 'dangling candy' by Montgomery County Court Judge Garrett D. Page, who also reportedly asked 'What young man would not jump on that candy?' before sentencing her to 30 days in jail for having sex with a 17-year-old student .
11082
Domenico Rancadore, who has lived in Britain for more than 20 years, was given a seven-year sentence by an Italian court in 1999 for being a member of the Cosa Nostra.
11083
It was a constant reminder of the evil that took place there.
A Croydon Council spokesman confirmed the homes are near completion and the number 20 will not be used.
11084
'Men who respect women do not do it.'
Ms Smart (left) said she was regularly wolf-whistled at while walking past a building site (right) on her way to work .
11085
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has asked San Francisco Bay Area boaters to watch out for and steer clear of whales, which migrate into the San Francisco Bay Area in large numbers during the spring and summer.
11086
Michael Phelps is entered in five events at this week's Arena Pro Swim Series in Mesa, Arizona, which will be his first meet since serving a six-month ban following a drunk-driving conviction.
11087
Aston Villa match-winner Fabian Delph was left pinching himself after booking his side's place in the FA Cup final at the expense of Liverpool.
11088
The accusations sparked a Twitter trend with internet users sharing mocking photographs of beheaded Barbie dolls on Saturday afternoon.
11089
Manchester City are keen to sign Anderlecht teenager Evangelos Patoulidis.
Manuel Pellegrini is looked to build for the future by snapping up hot property Evangelos Patoulidis .
11090
Blaine Boudreaux (left), 34, has been charged in connection to three separate DUI crashes in Houston that killed 6-year-old Josh Medrano, injured his mother and led to the death of a homeless man .
11091
Lindsey Vonn spoke about her relationship with Tiger Woods on the Late Night With Seth Meyers .
Vonn says daughter Sam and son Charlie are 'great kids' and that Woods is a 'great father'
11092
The majority of older workers did not believe better computer skills would help them in their current job, while an astonishing one in 10 have never used a computer.
11093
A visibly relieved Andrew was visiting the offices of AkzoNobel, a paint firm based in Slough, and smiled broadly as he chatted to employees.
11094
Meanwhile, families who do vaccinate their kids are eligible for the $7,500-a-year childcare rebate, $200-a-week childcare benefit and the $726 Family Tax Benefit Part A end of year supplement.
11095
A husband accused of trying to murder his cheating wife wrote her an extraordinary letter while remanded in prison asking her to send him a suit for his trial, a court heard yesterday.
11096
Late goals from Robert Huth and Jamie Vardy sealed a dramatic 3-2 victory against West Bromwich Albion on Saturday, a week after Andy King's late goal secured a 2-1 win against West Ham United.
11097
Arsenal are close to signing 16-year-old Maxi Romero from Velez Sarsfield for £4.5million .
The Argentine wonderkid has been dubbed the next Lionel Messi and would stay at Velez on loan .
11098
The heat blasting from the 'ring of fire' has been measured at 792C (1457F) from two metres away, reports People's Daily Online, and is so intense that experts can't get close enough to determine how deep the hole is.
11099
The 33-year-old, who is vying for a place on Team GB at the Rio Olympics, welcomed Mia Grace with husband Mike Tindall last year.
11100
Lian Doyle agreed to hide the trainers worn by Justin Robertson when he murdered Pennie Davis because he had been paid £1,500 by the son of the victim's ex-lover.
11101
He is wanted on suspicion of conspiracies to import and supply heroin and cocaine, and is believed to be a member of a Europe-wide organised crime network responsible for the importation of Class A drugs into the UK.
11102
But after meeting her victims, the 21-year-old from Buenos Aires, would spike their drinks and wait for them to fall unconscious, before ransacking their homes.
11103
Married couple John and Karen Copleston said neighbour Paul Phillips, 67, had constantly harassed them over a petty dispute after they moved a gate at the back of their £210,000 house in Poole, Dorset .
11104
Around seven human skulls (pictured) dating back nearly 2,000 years have so far been found as part of the latest discovery by archaeologists at the London Crossrail site near Liverpool Street station .
11105
Zenit St. Petersburg midfielder Javi Garcia (left) tussles for the ball with Sevilla's Jose Antonio Reyes (right) Sevilla forward Kevin Gameiro (left) has a shot at goal as Zenit defender Luis Neto (right) jumps to block .
11106
But what might sound like a nightmare, white-knuckle ride for most people was a walk in the park for Antti who is seen casually spinning on his seat mid-flight and even waving at a trailing helicopter.
11107
The university, in Ohio, took action after damning footage emerged of the coach touching an unidentified woman's behind on March 21.
11108
Forget about having a 'supernose': 'Essentially wine experts smell and taste the same but they’re better at processing the information,' says Dr Russell .
11109
'ORD for Chicago O’Hare points to its past as Orchard Field and MSY for New Orleans Louis Armstrong reflects aviator John Moisant and the nearby Moisant Stock Yards.
11110
SoloEast Travel, a Kiev-based tour operator, offers multi-day trips that include overnight stays at a cottage about 50 km from the site .
11111
Borussia Dortmund eased past visiting Paderborn 3-0, in their first game since the announcement that coach Juergen Klopp would leave at the end of the season, to keep their hopes of a Europa League place alive.
11112
AmaZing Venues forked out £3million in first transforming sister venue, Spitbank Fort, which opened in 2012, with this venture being three times as big.
11113
Waving the white shirt?
Clean up: A woman who wasn't involved much physically (left) did come in and grab some clothes at one point .
11114
He has taken millions of selfies - including during this campaign.
Prime Minister David Cameron, pictured, used a selfie stick for the first time during visit to Cornwall .
11115
'She’s got that twinkle in her eye,' Topshop creative director Kate Phelan told Elle, while comparing Hailey to supermodel Cara Delevingne.
11116
The 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed that the Washington Supreme Court did not act unreasonably when it rejected Clark Elmore’s claim his constitutional rights were violated at trial.
11117
Jannik Andersen (pictured), an attendee at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival was struck and killed by a freight train just a few miles away from the event's California site, police said on Monday .
11118
Jack Wilshere is reportedly on the shopping list of Manchester City this summer, but the Arsenal midfielder showed off his own trolley dash during his day off on Monday.
11119
'It was pretty unusual on this evening that he had taken alcohol,' Ms Lee said.
Joseph Getty is great-grandson of J. Paul Getty, left, and grandson of Sir John Paul Getty, right .
11120
The man, who has not been named, fell onto tracks in Washington, D.C., Tuesday afternoon .
It is unclear exactly what sent the electric wheelchair tumbling over the edge of the platform.
11121
Jeb Corliss jumped over the 562m high Ball's Pyramid near Lord Howe Island, in the Tasman Sea between Australia and New Zealand, documenting his flight over the stunning site.
11122
Mummified remains of 28-year-old Terézia Hausmann (above) found in the 18th century crypt of the Dominican church in Vác, Hungary, were among those found to have been infected with tuberculosis by the researchers .
11123
Nicholas Pence, 25, (left) and his father David, 56, (right) were shot dead 'execution-style' at home on Wednesday night after a football party in their garage, or 'man cave'.
11124
Myanmar's newly-built capital city, Naypyidaw, is shrouded in secrecy, after the government decided to move the capital from Yangon .
11125
Manchester City risk losing star man Sergio Aguero should they slip out of the Premier League's top four .
However, he now has to think of himself.
11126
‘Obviously I was playing county cricket, which was great, but the ultimate is playing for England and I want to do that for as long as possible.
11127
'Words can't describe how bad I feel.'
If the fan feels comfortable around bats again after he's out of the hospital, Russell has one waiting for him .
11128
Livingston: Jamieson, Fordyce, Gallacher, Cole, Talbot, Keaghan Jacobs, O'Brien, Pitman (Mullen 86), Kyle Jacobs, White (Boulding 89), Hippolyte (Glen 81).
11129
Television personality and author Bill Nye 'the Science Guy' joined President Barack Obama today for an Earth Day excursion, riding aboard Air Force One with the president during his visit to the Florida Everglades.
11130
A 28-year-old Florida woman has been charged in the death of her 3-month-old daughter who was left home alone while the mother was out dancing last week.
11131
South Yorkshire Police missed 'intelligence and investigative opportunities' to tackle child sex exploitation in Rotherham, pictured, a report has found.
11132
Toulon went ahead when Mathieu Bastareaud blasted over the line from close range in the eighth minute and, as their pack took control, Frederic Michalak was able to dispatch five first-half penalties.
11133
Newly-engaged couple, Paul and Tara, are pictured with their children from previous relationships, Ellie (Paul's daughter - pictured left) and Carrick, (Tara's son - pictured middle) Paul, who has a daughter Ellie, 11, from a previous relationship,
11134
A beam of sunlight can be seen dancing on his knuckles as Liam attempts to hold the magnifying glass steady so as to concentrate the beam, and its heat energy, into one place.
11135
Louis van Gaal has revealed that he has spoken to Marouane Fellaini about keeping his cool when the Manchester United midfielder returns to Goodison Park on Sunday for the first time since his £27million move from Everton.
11136
Cuspert had been a relatively successful rapper under the name Deso Dogg before trading in his faux-gangster lifestyle to wage jihad on behalf of the Islamic State .
11137
In Ocean Shores there are roads that lead on to beach approaches, where drivers can go from road to beach, which is how the Reece family made their way to the surf .
11138
Not only the Fight of the Century but the sale of tickets for Floyd Mayweather versus Manny Pacquiao.
But none for the super-ringside tickets costing $10,000 (£6,600).
11139
Tim Sherwood returned to White Hart Lane with his Aston Villa side on Saturday and recorded a hugely important 1-0 victory against Tottenham to dramatically increase his team's chances of Premier League survival.
11140
French giants Paris Saint-Germain have been dealt a major blow with the news that David Luiz will miss the Champions League clash with Barcelona.
11141
Keir Starmer, who ran the Crown Prosecution Service for five years, was in charge when Operation Elveden began its tainted 'witch hunt' into tabloid journalists.
11142
The pub, which stood in Maida Vale, west London, was the only building in its road that was not destroyed by bombs during the Blitz but did not survive CLTX Ltd, which was denied planning permission to turn it into flats by Westminster City Council in January.
11143
Mrs Brady first got involved in gun control advocacy in 1986 (pictured) after seeing her six-year-old son playing with a loaded hand gun that had been left in a car .
11144
And Sarah, who is of European and Costa Rican descent, took to Instagram last week to share a photo of growing belly during her ninth month of pregnancy, writing: '10 days until we meet #BabyJames.'
11145
Sherwood joked that he would be the first to try to tempt Kane away from Spurs by bidding in the summer but said the form of Christian Benteke and Gabby Agbonlahor would keep out the 21-year-old.
11146
Paris Street Rose is full of rich sweet fruit made from full bodied Transylvanian Pinot Noir, so it will have enough body to cut through the combination of sweet and sour.
11147
Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal has successfully lobbied for a shorter than anticipated tour of the US this summer.
11148
A three-year-old girl was airlifted to Morriston Hospital (pictured) in Swansea after being mauled in the face by her family's pet dog .
11149
And according to experts, today's unseasonably warm weather is just the beginning of a week-long spell of sunshine, which could stick around until the end of the week.
11150
'I didn't walk away.
'The whole reason I stopped being a mug and stopped my anger was because I had children,' Geyer told Daily Mail Australia.
11151
$2 million worth of stolen artwork has been found in a caretakers garage after disappearing from the walls of an inner-city Sydney penthouse.
11152
MailOnline ran a story on April Fools' Day stating that prior to Arsenal's clash with Liverpool at the Emirates, both pre-match teamtalks by captains Per Mertesacker and Jordan Henderson would be streamed live to the world.
11153
Mr Whelan, who officially changed his name to King of Inkland King Body Art The Extreme Ink-ite but goes by Body Art for short, has covered every inch of his body in elaborate inkings.
11154
The freezer trawler with an international crew of 132 sank this morning in the freezing waters of the Sea of Okhotsk 205 miles off Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula.
11155
The van is seen with a flat tyre, prompting the police to believe the driver was on his way to garage .
Sun added that such behaviour could lead to an accident any second.
11156
The SES had responded to about 15 jobs on Monday morning, mainly in Sydney metro area.
They were treated for minor injuries by paramedics.
11157
Jennie Anne Kehlet, 49, and Raymond Keith Kehlet, 47, were last seen on March 22 in an area called Table Top near the gold prospecting and mining town of Sandstone, some 730km north east of Perth.
11158
The Florida court heard  how Bryan Santana was living out some kind of sick fantasy when he removed all the lightbulbs of the Orlando home he shared with Shelby Fazio, 23, before waiting for the young woman to return, killing her and then abusing her body in October last year.
11159
Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino has likened England hot-shot Harry Kane to Gabriel Batistuta and insisted he will be there to help him when things do not go to plan.
11160
Newcastle midfielder Siem de Jong played 45 minutes for Peter Beardsley's Under 21 side on Wednesday .
Meanwhile, forgotten man Facundo Ferreyra replaced De Jong at the break.
11161
Part of the proceeds will be donated to charity.
A portion of the proceeds from Bonhams and the vendor will be donated to charity, the auctioneers said.
11162
Jake Castner, from Ballarat in Victoria, went into hiding last week after a warrant was issued for his arrest in relation to an alleged string of thefts.
On 6 April, he begged for a lift to hospital and asked for his mother’s phone number.
Castner pleaded guilty to 33 offences in November last year .
11163
A U.S. State Department spokesperson said the scale of China's land reclamation in the South China Sea (pictured) is fueling concerns in the region that China intends to militarise its outposts .
11164
Fire crews were called after a tremendous blast was heard, blowing the back wall and windows out and causing substantial damage to the roof .
11165
I loved that thing going over the top of me,’ Johnny Debnam said of the experience .
Natural, awesome, pure things like (swimming with a stingray),’ said Debnam.
11166
Schumacher Junior will drive under his own name for the first time in his career when he races this weekend .
Mick makes few errors.
11167
Allen poses with Sean Melia, a volunteer at the Anfield Sports Community Centre who was present at Melwood as a ‘Barclays spirit of the game hero’
11168
His 40 children by 20 women have cost the taxpayer more than £4million in benefits and care costs, with at least 16 taken off him and their mothers by social services.
11169
Embarrassment:
Last week, a man landed a gyrocopter on the U.S. Capitol lawn in the latest embarrassment for security teams in Washington D.C.
11170
Carver said on Thursday: ‘We need to give the captaincy to somebody who is responsible, who is a leader' ‘I shouldn't have to go in there and manage that dressing room – that's what your captains are there for.
11171
The other was posing for German car brand Opel.
The fashion designer said of Choupette, 'It’s all in the eyes, the eyes . . . it’s how she communicates’
It must be said that Choupette has only one look but, according to Karl, that doesn’t matter: ‘It’s all in the eyes, the eyes . . . it’s how she communicates.’
11172
The Church of England’s ambitious plans involve harnessing the energy of Bath’s 45°C spring water to power a modern heating system for the building.
11173
Mr Burrell's partner, Chantelle Graham, said her son, who was with Mr Burrell as he was arrested, repeated 'the black police officer hit my daddy' after she took him home .
11174
Australian Open  (1997, 1998, 1999) Wimbledon (1997) US Open (1997) French Open runner-up (1997, 1999) Total career singles titles: 43 .
11175
After a 20-second rendition, she decides she's had enough for one day and turns around to take a bow.
'Cute video, gorgeous and smart dog! ' one fan wrote.
11176
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, who follows a strict clean and lean diet, showcases her super toned body in new imagery to promote her lingerie range for Autograph at M&S .
Visit site .
11177
Both Captain America (left) and Black Widow (right) have super strength and quick reflexes, while and - most interestingly - the ability to heal  quickly.
11178
Wat Pha Luang Ta Bua in Thailand's western Kanchanaburi province - commonly known as 'The Tiger Temple' - has long proved a hit among tourists who flock there to visit the monks and be photographed next to their huge feline pets.
11179
Angel di Maria and Radamel Falcao were little more than fresh legs here on Sunday, and any success Van Gaal has enjoyed in his first season at Old Trafford needs to be measured against the difficulties two phenomenally talented players have endured.
11180
It says the phone is switched off.
Mount Everest basecamp in Nepal pictured on April 11 before the avalanche hit, killing at least 18 people .
11181
Manu Tuilagi has not featured for England since the three-Test summer tour of New Zealand in 2014 .
There's a lot of competition in the team but it's always been that way.
11182
Audrey's parents are posting videos of Audrey dancing at Zumba class to raise money for the Diamond Blackfan Anemia Foundation; here, Audrey holds a check for $10,000 .
11183
Cristiano Ronaldo scored his first free-kick in 57 attempts to send Real Madrid on their way to a 3-0 victory over Eibar.
Ref: Alejandro Jose Hernandez .
11184
Southampton right-back Nathaniel Clyne (left) is stalling over a new contract at the club and could leave .
11185
Lisa said Ruby kept escaping from their garden onto Mr Cook's land causing him to come and complain.
It was like a dream, I was devastated.'
11186
Mark Lippert, 42, suffered deep gashes to his cheek and hand when he was assaulted by knife-wielding nationalist Kim Ki-Jong at a breakfast function in central Seoul last month.
11187
The Argentine is playing for Werder Bremen and has scored 13 goals in 22 games this season.
Sunderland are considering a summer move for in-form Werder Bremen forward Franco Di Santo .
11188
Combining two Sentinel-1A radar scans from 17 and 29 April 2015, this interferogram shows changes on the ground that occurred during the 25 April earthquake that struck Nepal.
11189
Ephedra foeminea is the only known plant species to follow the lunar cycle, but dung beetles use polarised moonlight to navigate in straight lines while moving dung (a stock image is shown) and crabs and seabirds are also said to use the moon to carry out daily activities .
11190
My mum and grandma are from St Kitts, and my grandma passed away when I was younger - so making the choice to play for them came from the heart.
11191
Two gunmen have assassinated prominent Pakistani women's rights activist Sabeen Mahmud by pulling up next to her vehicle at a traffic light and spraying it with bullets.
11192
Ryan Bertrand took to Instagram to upload a snap of himself and his daughter in their matching cars - admittedly, however, one of them probably isn't road legal.
11193
After that, Bamford hopes to be part of Gareth Southgate’s England Under 21 squad for the European Championships in the Czech Republic this summer.
11194
From the couple who wore matching American flag leotards (left) to the man who sported a loincloth over Speedos (right), could this be the worst year for Coachella street style yet?
Visit site .
11195
YouTube star Cassey Ho has hit back at critics with a powerful and provocative new video, highlighting the cruel comments left by viewers of her fitness-focused clips who accuse the trim and toned online icon of being everything from ‘too fat’ to ‘ugly’ to ‘pudgy’.
11196
Mr Roark was invited to serve as the couple's 'padrino de anillo' or 'godfather of the ring'
TYYJCEM stands for 'Tu y yo juntos contra el mundo' or 'You and I together against the world'
11197
Bjorn Ulvaeus, of Swedish pop group ABBA, has unveiled his new musical project, a Mamma Mia inspired restaurant performance, set to open in January 2016 .
11198
Sportsmail have teamed up with Gillette to offer one lucky reader the chance to win a pair of Nike Magista Obra boots signed by the England and Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart.
11199
However, in a speech in Yorkshire, Shadow chancellor Ed Balls will point to figures from the Institute for Fiscal Studies showing families are £1,100 a year worse off over the past five years as a result of government tax and spending changes.
11200
Dick Advocaat has serious concerns over the strength of Sunderland’s players ahead of their relegation run-in.
You win games together, you lose games together.
11201
Jessica Brown was on her way to hospital with her husband, Zakk Satterley, when the couple realized, in standstill traffic waiting for Obama to pass, they weren't going to make it .
11202
Among them, the family of eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim to lose his life in the April 15, 2013 attack, headed to Boylston Street to help officials unveil commemorative banners.
11203
Locals from the island of Kudahuvadhoo, located in the southern area of the Dhaalu Atoll in the Maldives, reported witnessing 'a low-flying jumbo jet' on the morning of March 8 last year.
11204
Former Saints boss Mauricio Pochettino saw Ward-Prowse’s potential in that area and last summer, representing England in the Toulon Tournament, he scored a free-kick against Brazil that a Brazilian would have been proud of.
11205
Boasting stunning views of the Sydney Harbour bridge from the front lacework terrace, the 416sqm inner city block property has a large northerly garden with footsteps down to the heart of the historical area of The Rocks.
11206
Prime Minister David Cameron used a Take That lyric during Prime Minister's Questions, directed at Barlow, where he said 'We want your money back for good' as part of a pledge to get tax avoiders to return £5billion .
11207
And in a missive posted yesterday Hussain railed against jihadis who moan 'like menstruating women' about the guns they've been given.
11208
Officers have closed off a large area of Clacton town centre as forensic specialists conduct a finger-tipped search of the crime scene.
11209
One point would be one less point we need, but the reality is that three points is always three points and one less match we need to win so is a very important step in a very important match,' he said.
11210
Henri van Breda (back left) escaped the attack while his father Martin, 55 (back right), mother Teresa, 54 (front right), and brother Rudi, 22 (back centre) were killed.
11211
Holden (pictured, above, on This Morning with Phillip Schofield) said her sister Debbie had not yet reached Everest Base Camp, where a deadly avalanche hit, because she was ill and had stopped off to recover .
11212
Resident Louisa Irving, 94, is one of several dementia sufferers at Hebrew Care Home, who is woken up each morning with a video recording from a loved one to help ease confusion and agitation .
11213
Shadow business Secretary Chuka Umunna told MailOnline: 'Iain Duncan Smith's 'Marie Antoinette' moment today has revealed just how out of touch the Tories are about the lives of working people.
11214
Michael Phelps made a winning return to competitive racing as the 18-time Olympic gold-medallist claimed 100 metres butterfly victory at the Arena Pro Swim Series in Arizona.
11215
Sportsmail's Derek Lawrenson gives his predictions ahead of the 79th Masters at Augusta on Thursday.
Best European (Non-UK)
Best from the UK .
11216
The 'Trusselator' device will enable construction of large support structures for systems such as multi-hundred-kilowat solar arrays, large solar sails, and football-field sized antennas.
11217
Talks over a new deal are progressing, but Tottenham want the contract concluded sooner rather than later.
11218
Cook plays to the offside as wicketkeeper Jaison Peters of St Kitts and Nevis Invitational XI looks on .
11219
Fireman Xu Weiguo, who was also inside the apartment, immediately climbed out on to the ledge and video shows him grabbing her arm just as she appears to be pushing herself away.
11220
'We have also contacted the Football Association, the Football League, and the United Kingdom Football Policing Unit to inform them of the complaints we have received from Hartlepool United supporters.
11221
White House deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said in an appearance on CNN Tuesday that the White House in 2014 disclosed cyber intrusions that did not affect classified information.
11222
Millionaire real estate heir Robert Durst was indicted Wednesday on the two weapons charges that have kept him in New Orleans even though his lawyers say he wants to go to Los Angeles as soon as possible to face a murder charge there (file photo)
11223
A county in Illinois says former US Rep Aaron Schock, who redecorated his office in the decadent style of television show Downton Abbey,  should pay for the special elections to replace him.
11224
The group in the video, which calls itself Soldiers of the Caliphate in Yemen, began to emerge late last year and it is believed that their aim is to take over Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), which has strongholds in the south and south-east of Yemen.
11225
But the Environment Agency says it has a legal duty under EU-backed regulations to protect the water voles as an endangered species.
11226
They found that more than 500 women who had been treated with tamoxifen, and those that had drunk at least two cups of coffee a day, had only half the risk of their cancer returning than those who drank less coffee, or none at all.
11227
Real Madrid 1-0 Liverpool, November 4 .
Mesut Ozil curls home Arsenal's second in their 4-1 win over Liverpool in the Premier League last weekend .
11228
A day before her last chemotherapy treatment, Rosannah's mother Jamielee gave birth to her second child, Skylah, and just two week later, was told that the chemotherapy hadn't been successful in reducing the tumour to an operable size.
11229
Sam Cam put her best foot forward on the campaign trail in west London.
Badge on lapel, leaflets in hand, smart white loafers tripping lightly over the Hounslow flagstones, she looked every inch the groomed and polished loyal Conservative wife.
Sam Cam put her best foot forward on the campaign trail in west London.
11230
Caught on camera: This is the deafening moment a mother of six boys finds out she's finally having a girl, the seventh time trying .
Tickled pink:
11231
And grow old with husband like we had planned' Louisa Steckenreuter is desperately trying to raise money for an expensive cancer treatment which could buy her more time with her family .
11232
Earlier in the day, security forces rescued Cynthia Cheroitich, 19, who spent two days hiding in a wardrobe at Garissa University College and drinking body lotion to survive.
11233
These images were all captured by a New York teenager who goes by the name of Dark.Cyanide and scales some of the city's tallest buildings in search of the perfect view .
11234
Single mother-of-six Toya Graham spoke on Wednesday about dragging her teenage son home from the Baltimore riots, adding that when she saw the video clip, she thought: 'My pastor is going to kill me'
11235
His five-storey central London home, and its accompanying mews house is thought to be worth at least £5million, while his Grade I-listed manor house in Buckinghamshire, once owned by Sir John Gielgud, is thought to be worth a similar amount.
11236
He is one more than 2,000 teenagers who have attend Kommando core, an AWB 'endurance' camp for white youngsters, over the last two years.
11237
Turning his attentions to Darth Vader, pictured, he said: 'The main bad guy - what's he called Dark Raider - is he black, he has a deep voice, he listens to rap music - it's just a really bad racial stereotype'
11238
Jaclyn Pfeiffer, 29, worked at the Aloma Methodist Early Childhood Learning Center in Orange County full-time for the last 18 months, while her partner, Kelly Bardier, 33, was recently employed as a part-time teacher.
11239
Roxy, who was formerly a bodyguard called Bob, has finally mended her relationship with her nine-year-old autistic son William by becoming his second mother .
11240
The study undertaken by Human Rights Watch found fighters were kidnapping women and children as young as eight, forcing them to marry and convert to Islam and raping them repeatedly – sometimes picking their victims’ names out of a hand in a sick lottery.
11241
One vandal smashed the front window of Foxtons Brixton branch (pictured) during a 'wholly peaceful' protest against rising house prices in London .
11242
You have to give Jonathan Trott huge credit for battling his way back to Test cricket but a bit of a risk has been taken with him because if it doesn't come off it will look like another big decision that England have got wrong.
11243
The final book written by Sir Terry Pratchett, The Shepherd's Crown, which will be set in the Discworld universe and feature witch Tiffany Aching, will be released this September, his publishers have said .
11244
Manager Sam Allardyce says filling the stadium is the most important thing for any football club .
'The most important thing at a football club is to fill the stadium,' he said.
11245
When Instagram users try to search for the aubergine, or eggplant, emoji hashtag no posts appear - even if there are posts tagged in this way .
11246
A Cold War bunker built to accomodate civil servants in the event of a nuclear attack has been transformed into a stunning £3.5million luxury home.
11247
Josh Kerr took advantage when the Scotland under-17 star came for a corner and missed it to put the Hoops in front before McCrorie dropped a Mark Hill free kick over the line.
11248
Professor Stephen Hawking can be heard singing the show's famous Galaxy Song, released digitally this week, and available on vinyl this weekend as part of Record Store Day 2015 .
11249
Luke  went missing from the Candlebark Campground in the Fraser National Park near Lake Eildon, north-east of Melbourne, on Friday.
11250
Above it Atlas, which according to Google-owned Boston Dynamics, is a 'high mobility, humanoid robot designed to negotiate outdoor, rough terrain.
11251
Hulk, who has 41 caps for Brazil, recently signed a new long-term deal at the Russian club until the end of the 2018-19 season.
11252
Lucian Faggiano's dream of opening a restaurant was scuppered when a dig to find a blocked sewage point yielded some 2,000 years of hidden history, including vast rooms and pottery (shown in this image that features Mr Faggiano left and his son)
11253
Spruill was charged with murder and criminal possession of a weapon - an autopsy will reveal whether he raped her .
'Very pretty, pleasant young lady.'
11254
Awaiting sentencing: Her husband Gary Machinshok, 29, whom she met on onlinebootycall.com, has admitted raping the girl 'every few days' in 2013, and sexually assaulting her 11-year-old sister .
11255
Former New York City police officer Gilberto Valle and his mother Elizabeth Valle leave the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York after his conviction was thrown out .
11256
Eastern Sydney's Waverley mayor Sally Betts wrote a reference for Luke Lazarus 'out of loyalty to the family' after he raped an 18-year-old woman in an alleyway outside his father's SOHO nightclub, in Sydney.
11257
The European Parliament is set to vote to close the current loophole, which sees all alcoholic drinks exempt from having to reveal nutritional value on their labels, next week.
11258
Welsh international Elliot Kear is back in rugby league after signing for Championship club London Broncos.
Kear will be available for Sunday's home game against Dewsbury.
11259
Owen, like Sterling, started his senior career at Liverpool but eventually moved on to Real Madrid in 2004.
11260
Ms La Greca, from the region of Campania in southern Italy,  is standing for Lega Sud Ausonia -  a small independent party  that wants to see the region of Ausonia become independent.
11261
That's the aim,' said Palmer.
'I'm loving working with Lotus and being in F1, but I'd love to be racing as well, so if I get a good offer I'd love to.'
11262
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho said he was unfazed by his side's staggeringly low possession stat during the 1-0 win over Manchester United and all that mattered to him was achieving a positive result.
11263
A Dan Potts header and Adam Drury's own goal gave West Ham a two-goal lead before Olivier Ntcham pulled back a goal for City, but it was not enough.
11264
Visit site .
David Beckham (17 per cent) 4.
Kate Middleton (15 per cent) 5. Twiggy (10 per cent)
Queen Elizabeth I (10 per cent) 7. Sean Connery (9 per cent)
David Bowie (8 per cent)
Victoria Beckham (8 per cent)
Kate Moss (8 per cent)
11265
David Cameron this afternoon hit back at growing criticism over his election campaign – vowing to carry on warning about Labour's threat to the economy.
11266
It found new brain cells, or neurons, can be formed by stimulating the front part of the brain known as the prefrontal cortex which is involved in memory retention using minute amounts of electricity.
11267
Charlie Austin has revealed how his good mate Joey Barton ignored him on his first day at Queens Park Rangers before realising his mistake - with the duo then becoming good friends.
11268
The six goals smashed past the hapless Portuguese pretenders in the quarter-final second leg at the Allianz Arena now takes Bayern's goals total for the season to a spectacular and barely believable 115.
11269
Today will bring cloudy weather for central and eastern Britain with sunny spells and the chance of light showers, but it will be dry and bright elsewhere.
11270
Glenn Murray jumps for joy after putting Crystal Palace 1-0 up against Manchester City on Monday night .
How foolish that move looks now.
11271
The Liverpool captain spent the evening in the VIP room with friends, knowing full well that defeat by Aston Villa at Wembley confirmed what he had feared all season: he would end his final year at Anfield without a trophy.
11272
The FA have formed a concussion experts panel to help figure out how to make the game safer for players .
11273
Mothers and fathers should use the ‘carrot and the stick’ approach to make children do the things they find boring or difficult – from going to the dentist to doing their homework, Sir James Munby said.
11274
Throughout his childhood years, Luca underwent over 60 hours of surgery as doctors tried to rebuild his legs over and over again as he has grew.
11275
Jason Cotterill, 42, plagued his victim with messages over the internet, even threatening to post a sex video of her on her Facebook page.
11276
Cristiano Ronaldo looked in formidable form as he showed off his array of skills ahead of Real Madrid's Champions League quarter-final against city rivals Atletico.
11277
Mr Clegg  backed Mr Alexander's decision to disclose details of confidential coalition discussions saying the Conservatives needed to say where their planned benefits cuts would fall.
11278
Goal: Benteke, 35 .
MOM: Benteke .
Villa striker Benteke shoots at goal in an attempt to score his second goal of the game against Tottenham .
11279
Historians claim the battle marked the turning-point in the Ottoman–Habsburg wars, a 300-year struggle between the Holy Roman Empire and the Ottoman Empire .
11280
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger accepted his side were 'a bit lucky' after a fumble from Reading goalkeeper Adam Federici handed them a 2-1 extra-time victory and a place in the FA Cup final.
11281
Liverpool have agreed a new three-year kit sponsorship deal with Standard Chartered Bank .
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers (right) is still in search of his first trophy with the club .
11282
The time is right for Manchester United target Mats Hummels to make the switch to the Premier League, according to Germany legend Franz Beckenbauer.
11283
'We understand we have issues.
There is a plan, and we need to understand if that plan is commensurate with the issues we've seen on track.
11284
‘That’s the madness of it,’ manager Eddie Howe said in the aftermath.
Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe had plenty to smiles about as his side returned to the top of the table .
11285
Fresh from being beaten by Ferrari driver Sebastian Vettel at the Malaysian Grand Prix on March 29, the Mercedes team-mates have been collaborating with their team to ensure the prancing horse doesn't gallop to victory at the next race in China.
11286
The spot kick was awarded after Juve's Alvaro Morata got clear of Monaco's Portuguese defender Ricardo Carvalho as the striker chased a long ball forward from Andrea Pirlo.
11287
Ecuador's leader Rafael Correa (right) posed for a picture next to a boy wearing an 'I'm With Stupid' T-shirt .
11288
A heartfelt letter left by passenger 'Bethanie' to the pilot who 'got her home safely,' has been shared on Twitter .
'Take care and spread love.'
11289
Despite being paraded as a prominent backer of Mr Miliband hours earlier, throughout the television debate on Thursday night she instead tweeted praise for Green Party leader Natalie Bennett .
11290
But unlike the Premier League, squads aren't restricted to 25 players so they can still sign as many non-homegrown players as they like.
11291
During an interview with New York Fashion Times, Lafontaine asserted that after being asked to perform car stunts in a movie she was in, she became licensed with the International Stunt Association in Europe and later got certified as a stunt driver in California.
11292
Webb told Daily Mail Online that she asked her 80-year-old 'Poppa' James Drain to prom because he never got to attend the dance himself.
11293
Debbie, who stepped in to care for the children after social services threatened to take them away, says her daughter's constant drinking and partying is getting out of hand.
11294
Baugh, 73, sparked widespread outrage in 2013 over comments suggesting that 14-year-old Cherice Moralez (right) shared some responsibility for her rape by teacher Stacey Rambold (left)
11295
In its election manifesto the party has said it would have a five year moratorium on unskilled migrants moving to the country.
11296
Cui Hongfang's family told Chinese media that the Canadian tourist was running down steep steps .
He told the newspaper: ‘The foreigner was moving really fast.
11297
Chelsea allowed the Premier League trophy, lifted by John Terry in 2010, to be displayed at Stamford Bridge for the BBC on the strict understanding that the big prize was not seen by members of the public .
11298
Ade and his friends booked their trip to Las Vegas back in December in anticipation for the big fight .
The group plan a big night out on Friday on the famous Las Vegas strip .
11299
Bird said Troy Prince (left, pictured with VP Joe Biden), who was executive director of the Iowa Democratic Party until he left last month to help Clinton's statewide political effort, recruited him and others to attend the 'spontaneous' coffee meeting .
11300
McIlroy's fourth place in the Masters is his best finish in seven appearances, while his 12 under par total was 12 shots better than last year and beat his previous best by eight shots.
11301
Raheem Sterling looks relaxed during Liverpool's training session on Thursday morning .
Rodgers issues instructions to Sterling as Liverpool prepare for Saturday's match with Arsenal .
11302
Julien Bonnaire may be a flanker and Billy Vunipola a No 8, but when you play flanker, you’re the first man who is going to tackle the No 8.
11303
Home-schooled Jonah spend up to two hours a day studying chess moves in books and analysing games .
Mr Scott said: ‘Cherniaev said Jonah played well and chose a good opening.
11304
Tottenham Hotspur goalkeeper Hugo Lloris will miss Sunday's Premier League trip to struggling Burnley as he recovers from a gashed knee suffered two weeks ago against Leicester City.
11305
Australia captain Michael Clarke believes Kevin Pietersen could play in this summer's Ashes Test series.
'He has certainly scored enough runs.
11306
'Ordinary Yorkshire lads': Hassan Munshi (left) and Talha Asmal (right), both 17 and from Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, are thought to have fled to war-torn Syria after travelling to Turkey on March 31 .
11307
The HiRise camera is able to take images of the surface with a resolution of 10 inches (25cm) per pixel, allowing it to spot the rover on the surface.
11308
'Nobody is forcing anybody to volunteer and no one is forcing companies to organise this volunteering if it causes problems to the company,' Mr Pickles told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
11309
Eden Hazard is reaching the incredible standards of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo with his ‘dancing feet’, says Graeme Souness.
11310
An RFU disciplinary panel dismissed a charge that Vunipola had recklessly led with his head in a incident which left the Leicester full back prone on the ground following a clash last weekend.
11311
Paris Saint-Germain face Nice on Saturday, hoping to take Ligue 1's top spot from Lyon but do so with a host of key stars missing, including captain Thiago Silva who is recuperating at home from a thigh injury.
11312
Robert Tomanovich, who owns Robert's Discount Tree Service in Livonia, Michigan, first hung a noose from a tree and a Confederate flag, printed with the slogan 'I ain't coming down,' on a fence at his home.
11313
The current record for days at the top belongs to Manchester United, when Sir Alex Ferguson's side led the way for 262 days during the 1993/94 season.
11314
Defending their record on that point, the club statement responded: 'Off field the board has reduced overall debt, including Thompson family loans, from £5.2m in February 2014 to £2.6m while successfully extricating the club from all bank debt.
11315
A veteran of 63 Test matches, Benaud played a pivotal role in the formation of World Series Cricket in the 1970s and was one of the world's most recognised commentators.
11316
Blizerian made headlines last year when a video was released showing him hurling an 18-year-old porn star from the roof of his mansion into the pool, leaving her with a broken foot.
11317
A video maker captured the storm, which initially it looks like a large white cloud, from the bank of a river.
11318
Hernandez's mother, Terri, (right) and fiancée, Shayanna Jenkins, (left) broke down in sobs and clutched at each other as each juror pronounced Hernandez guilty on all charges on Wednesday .
11319
A federal judge on Thursday ordered California's corrections department to provide a transgender inmate with sex-reassignment surgery, the first time such an operation has been ordered in the state.
11320
He's known as living in one of the most exclusive postcodes in London, and enjoying the best bars and restaurants with his wealthy co-stars, but Chelsea boy Andy Jordan's heart lies outside the capital.
11321
A team of scientists at Brandeis University in Massachusetts believe all-nighters to cram before an exam won't work because the process converting short-term memory to long-term memory is best carried out when a person is asleep .
11322
Life-changing error:
'And I began to think of all the places I would love to travel with my family that wouldn’t have been an option before.'
11323
Police were called to lead the rescue operation and officer Wang Xingto got the villagers to help drain the swamp to prevent the elephant from drowning .
11324
A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes through the edge of the earth's shadow.
This is an area known as the umbra, where light from the sun is blocked by our planet.
11325
Paul Sturrock experienced a baptism of fire at Yeovil, as they were relegated for the second consecutive time in his first game in charge - two days after he got the job.
11326
Millie Elia, an eighth-grade student from Oak Mountain, Alabama, died following the accident at Mount Cheaha State Park around 4.40pm on Saturday.
stay strong!'
11327
The first disbursement of Diana's will reads: 'I bequeath to my butler Paul Burrell the sum of £50,000, free of inheritance tax.'
11328
Raheem Sterling's controversial 'It's-Not-About-The-Money' campaign led him to the Emirates Stadium, where Liverpool and Arsenal fans united to protest against the rising price of football for travelling fans.
11329
The top worldwide destinations for international migrants were the U.S., Russia, Germany, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, UK and France, according to the data.
11330
Tim Sherwood will consider selling Christian Benteke this summer if Aston Villa’s star striker insists he wants to leave the club.
11331
Manuel Pellegrini has admitted he is disappointed in Yaya Toure but vowed to back the Manchester City midfielder — at least until the end of the season.
11332
Bernard Foley is favourite to wear the Wallabies number 10 shirt for their World Cup campaign, which starts against Fiji in Cardiff on September 23.
11333
A former girlfriend testified a year ago that Harris told her he shot Gerety in the stomach, tortured him for two days, then cut off his head.
11334
Vandals have destroyed historic monuments, an influx of fast-food outlets now line the major thoroughfares and binge-drinking tourists have been seen urinating in the streets and sleeping rough.
11335
The 31-year-old was reportedly transferred to solitary confinement in HMP Manchester, formerly Strangeways, a month ago after being caught smuggling a mobile phone and cannabis into his prison cell, sources said.
11336
Xie Hong Feng, pictured, died after falling down five floors through a lift shaft.
Property manager Yang said Ms Xie's three-year-old son pushed her down lift shaft to her death.
11337
To grant the little boy's final wish, staff at Bristol Children's Hospital pulled out all the stops to allow his parents to marry at his bedside, including getting the Archbishop of Canterbury's permission for the ceremony to be held on the paediatric ward.
11338
Mr Davies added that parties in the fictional Ambridge (map pictured) are limited to nine attendees because of budgetary considerations .
11339
Qantas were unable to be specific about what items of clothing would be banned but said: ‘The vast majority of our members meet and exceed the guidelines, but we have had some feedback from customers that they want to see those guidelines apply to everyone.
11340
Now, at only 18, LaNia is sharing details of how she learned to accept herself for who she is – and how, through her love of art, she learned to find beauty within her own appearance.
11341
Speaking on Sky's Soccer AM, the 34-year-old front man gave an in-depth analysis on where it all went 'horribly wrong' for Potters team-mate Charlie Adam following his wonder strike against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge last Saturday.
11342
JUVENTUS: Buffon 6.5; Barzagli 6, Bonucci 6.5, Chiellini 6; Lichsteiner 6.5, Marchisio 6, Pirlo 6.5, Vidal 6 (Pereyra 77'), Evra 6.5 (Padoin 90'); Tevez 6.5, Morata 6 (Llorente 69').
11343
The ground floor of Malcolm’s house has oak flooring throughout and there is a large entrance hall with a floating staircase, a media/cinema room, kitchen, snug and a 45ft lounge.
11344
I have enjoyed the battle between Ben Stokes and Samuels in this Test and I like the way the Durham lad goes about his cricket.
11345
‘I did my camp at All Stars because it’s a great team out there, they’ve got great fighters, great management over there.
I’ve just got to fight my fight.
11346
Judges rejected Home Secretary Theresa May's attempt to deport the 53-year-old serial criminal because of the risk of 'unacceptably savage' abuse he faced in Libya .
11347
Kell Brook could have had the blockbuster fight he craves against Amir Khan instead of treading water against Frankie Gavin, if only his promoter had minded his words.
11348
Summer Elbardissy (pictured) had to relearn basic functional skills such as walking, swallowing food and getting dressed after she fell out a fraternity house's window and suffered a traumatic brain injury .
11349
For his sixth birthday last July, he requested a 'box of cards' and received an overwhelming number in the mail after his mother asked people on Facebook to send her son a birthday card.
11350
Hundreds of payday lenders, such as Wonga, will be wiped out by tougher rules designed to protect customers, experts have predicted .
11351
Granger, pictured with Mr Hassan in the casino, took advantage of him being a 'soft target' Her boyfriend Kyrron Jackson and his friend Nicholas Chandler, both 28, were convicted of murder, robbery, false imprisonment and firearms offences.
11352
‘We have closed the gap since the start of the season,’ said Wenger.
Thierry Henry said Arsenal will not win the Premier League if they do not buy another striker .
11353
A copy of a Cruz for President invitation that later began flying around Twitter indicates the Texas senator skipped town early to make a fundraiser at the home of former Texas Rangers owner and billionaire Tom Hicks .
11354
The northern pine snake, or pituophis melanoleucus - a subspecies of the common pine snake - are endemic to south eastern states in the United States, including Alabama and Kentucky.
11355
Borussia Dortmund's Nuri Sahin claims Arsenal tried to lure him from the Bundesliga with a 'great bid' but the Turkey international didn't go because his family wanted to stay in Germany.
11356
'It's actually the Earth in the background and the UFO is in space observing the Mercury capsule,' Waring said .
11357
After judging the kitchens on The Block last week and taking into account what buyers look for in a kitchen, property buyers expert Frank Valentic gives his tips for ensuring great kitchen design.
11358
Handed in a latter: General Hawk Carlisle, commander of Air Combat Command, gave Post a letter of reprimand due to the findings and removed him from his position as vice commander .
11359
Despite her high-profile conviction she has never taken responsibility for her role in the murder of Tom and is also still fighting for a share in his substantial estate.
11360
Cost: £12million .
The 25-year-old Tunisia international has not long extended his contract until 2019 but would like to join Arsenal who have had scouts posted at most Monaco games throughout the season.
11361
Paddy Power's controversial advert about the outcome of the Oscar Pistorius murder trial was the most complained about advertisement in Britain last year.
11362
The patent says that the personality could replicate the robot's owner, 'a deceased loved one,' or 'a celebrity,' Google's patent details a cloud-based system where a personality could be downloaded to a robot, in the same way one might download an app.
11363
Joel Parker, 33, was arrested for throwing a Snickers bar at a bus driver's head after threatening and disrupting him during the ride through St Johns County, Florida, according to police .
11364
The observation deck, perched on top of a 718-metre cliff, boasts incredible views over Yunyang County in China .
Bottomless walkway:
11365
Audrey might miss the opportunity to play this season as there is only one tournament remaining in the club season, but if NV Premier does well she might be eligible for other tournaments (Audrey pictured above with her family)
11366
'It might have been a game they'd targeted to win and when it doesn't happen as a manager you do get frustrated,' said Monk, who knows victory will take Swansea past their previous best Premier League points total of 47.
11367
A recent surge in jellyfish numbers has moved tourism group Stay In Cornwall to reassure swimmers that the water is fine and we need not be discouraged by the sight of these brainless, boneless creatures that have been around for 500 million years.
11368
Sponsorship from The North Face helped fund her travel to races around the world.
Though running makes Hawker feel ‘beautifully empowered’, it has left her with ‘unbeautiful’ feet.
11369
Caught on camera: YouTube videos show four-month-old Noah Monte perfectly balancing on the palm of his father's hand as he's lifted through the air .
11370
Brentford had a chance to strike back five minutes later but, having found himself one-one-one with the goalkeeper and with two of his team-mates to the left of him, Alan Judge blasted the ball over the keeper and over the goal.
11371
The Cardiff University study noted most of those teens who do try e-cigarettes are also smokers, suggesting they are not using the electronic alternatives to try and quit their habits .
11372
Calf Muscle Strain, November 24 .
Ankle/Foot, October 19 .
Abdominal Strain, November 22 .
Calf Muscle Strain, March 7 .
Ankle/Foot Injury, May 1 .
11373
Jenna Bush Hager revealed that she is expecting her second daughter with husband Henry Hager live on this morning's Today show .
#trustmeiknow (sic)'
11374
The 22-second clip shows the two-time Grand National winner galloping towards the speeding silver car and apparently jumping it as the bookmaker gears up for Saturday's big race at Aintree.
11375
Lord Janner signed over the deeds of his £2million home to his children at the height of the police paedophile case against him.
11376
Dr Leshchinsky, the head of the laboratory of Mesozoic and Cenozoic continental eco-systems, said: 'In some collections that we examined almost 100 per cent of the bones (pictured) had signs of osteoporosis'
11377
The Avengers star said: 'I think for a man whose native tongue is Spanish to be able to put together a phrase like 'cultural genocide' just speaks to how bright he is'
11378
His former club have since plummeted in the Premier League while Palace now find themselves threatening the top half, and combining his records at both clubs this season would see 'Team Pardew' sit in eighth place, just five points behind Southampton.
11379
An unidentified man was caught on the NBC sports channel wandering across the green at the Ko Olina resort in Oahu and plunging into a pond.
11380
One-eyed police murderer Dale Cregan (above left) has reportedly been  moved from the Category A prison to the same secure psychiatric hospital as Moors murderer Ian Brady (above right)
11381
Despite his incredible success, the brilliant entrepreneur is incredibly down-to-earth, dedicated to hard work and is still renowned for always wearing his trademark fashion item - a cap .
11382
Two three-month-old Western Lowland Gorillas have been pictured for the first time at the Bronx Zoo since they were born less than 48 hours apart back in January .
11383
A group of Nevada sex workers, Hookers For Hillary, have come out in favor of the Democratic contender for president .
11384
The last four years have seen the worst conditions, with the entire state of California now declared to be experiencing a drought said the US Department of Agriculture.
11385
In a statement, Germanwings told MailOnline Travel: 'The reason [for the unscheduled landing] was that one passenger and one flight attendant had to go into medical treatment due to acute feeling of sickness.
11386
The Cardinal who led the service at the historic Cologne cathedral urged forgiveness for all of the victims - including co-pilot Andreas Lubitz who is widely blamed for 'deliberately' crashing the jet after locking the captain out of the cockpit.
11387
The prize for being tournament runner-up will jump from £4.8m to £7.8m while the winner's prize will jump from £7.8m to £11.11m.
11388
Dr Donald DeWitt, 65, a veteran teacher at Bergen County Academies in New Jersey, has been charged with attempted sexual assault, child endangerment and criminal sexual contact .
11389
On arrival, Harry will be taken straight to the Australian War Memorial on arrival before heading to barracks to report for duty.
11390
Cell phone footage has emerged appearing to show actor Dennis Quaid having a diva-esque meltdown on the set of his latest movie.
11391
Anne-Louise (right) was with her husband Ryan (left) when she collapsed in the waiting area of a Canadian hospital .
11392
X-rays were taken in areas where the orangutan has arthritis, her hips and ankles, as Dr Pirpiris then gave the ape a steroid injection which will reduce her pain for months and perhaps even years.
11393
In interviews Friday at Coast Guard headquarters in Portsmouth, the crew who recused Jordan (pictrued) said they did not see Jordan's boat and did not know any details about his time at sea .
11394
One pensioner, Graham White, 76, said residents think the property looks 'more like a children's playscheme than sheltered accommodation'.
11395
Derbyshire wicketkeeper Tom Poynton has been rewarded for his successful return from injury by signing a new one-year contract extension.
11396
Jonathan Davies says Clermont are relishing Champions Cup semi-final against Northampton .
When Saturday comes, everyone is on the same page to deliver and execute.’
11397
Cairney and Sterling — and Bieber, come to that -— were not born the last time, before this season, Blackburn met Liverpool in an FA Cup quarter-final.
11398
A series of billboards posted around New York City - including this one in Bushwick in Brooklyn - are seeking to encourage residents to consider a move east to Detroit .
11399
As the virtual teacher begins telling him off, the real teacher leans out and pushes the screen back to where it was originally.
11400
Leicester City midfielder Esteban Cambiasso knows what it feels like to claim football's biggest prizes but says saving the Premier League strugglers from relegation would be one of the highlights of his career.
11401
Mr Powell, of Longton Road, Barlaston, Staffordshire, is due to appear before magistrates at Newcastle-under-Lyme today .
11402
After West Ham announced a vast reduction in season ticket prices earlier this week, manager Sam Allardyce has labelled the move the best business by any Premier League club in a long time.
11403
A bizarre performance from Stan Wawrinka saw Grigor Dimitrov breeze through 6-1, 6-2 to his first masters quarter-final of the season.
11404
Manchester United's humiliation of their neighbours City continued their outstanding record against the Barclays Premier League's top seven this season.
11405
In a statement Jamaat-e-Islami, the country's largest Islamist political party, denounced the execution and called for a protest against the government's action .
11406
No message: Ed Miliband was last night accused of snubbing Britain’s army of self-employed workers – for refusing to send them a special Election message in the IPSE magazine .
11407
Twitter's top lawyer has admitted it has been ‘inexcusably slow’ in tackling online trolls who make the lives of others a misery.
11408
The German GP was erased from the 2015 schedule because of financial problems and F1 commercial head Bernie Ecclestone could not guarantee the future of the iconic Italian Grand Prix.
11409
State police say the female suspect then racked up $4,000 in bills after opening four store credit cards in Sullivan's name in New Haven, Connecticut.
11410
Jeremy Clarkson has become a green campaigner, Simon Cowell is going to be put on the £5 note and the Leaning Tower of Pisa is becoming a luxury hotel, it emerged today.
11411
Jessica Sey, from Cheltenham, has spoken of her devastation after discovering that her nephew Baboucarr Ceesay was among the 900 migrants who drowned in the Mediterranean boat disaster .
11412
Yaya Toure's agent has called Manchester City boss Manuel Pellegrini a 'weak manager' and criticised the club's chief executive Ferran Soriano and director of football Txiki Begiristain.
11413
Your one punch destroyed that.'
The court heard Anderson first attacked Adam Crosby at a bus stop in Hartlepool town centre on July 26 last year.
11414
According to police, a hapless thief likely stole the 2001 Toyota, similar to the model of car pictured here, after the boy's father left it running and briefly unattended and didn't notice him inside .
11415
After a scuffle Mr Dhillon managed to restrain the man in a stranglehold and his wife then appeared, further subduing the man - whose face was covered with a scarf and hood - by hitting him with a baseball bat.
11416
Floyd Mayweather with girlfriend Doralie Medina (left) and Manny Pacquiao with his wife Jinkee (right) Pacquiao with his wife and  children (left to right: Michael, Israel, Emmanuel, Princess and Queen Elizabeth .
11417
Ed Miliband is paying an Argentinian company which has attacked ‘vulture’ American bankers to help him become Prime Minister.
11418
Accident and emergency doctor Lin Xikun knew exactly what he had to do when he walked in on nurse Long Yufang being threatened with a knife by a bare-chested man.
11419
It added that officials needed to sort out whether Mr Moore had paid enough - or too much - tax.
In many cases, HMRC repays tax to the estate.
11420
For that to happen, Liverpool will need to beat both Hull and Queens Park Rangers and, suddenly, the 0-0 draw they had against West Brom on Saturday looks very costly but Rodgers has promised his players will not give up the chase.
11421
On Monday, Woods dropped out of the top 100 in the world rankings for the first time in almost 19 years.
11422
Her daughter Sarah Wright was also injured by the American ash tree, which was planted 200 years ago to mark the birth of Napoleon I's first son.
11423
'It doesn't get easier': Aren Almon-Kok, pictured at the memorial for her daughter Baylee, who was killed in the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995 the day after her first birthday .
11424
Bella said she didn't even have to give her name when she eventually reclaimed her phone because officers recognised her from her Facebook page .
11425
Manchester City (4-5-1): Hart 6; Zabaleta 6.5, Demichelis 6, Mangala 7, Kolarov 6.5; Lampard 6 (Fernandinho 88), Fernando 6.5, Navas 8, Toure 7, Silva 6.5 (Nasri 75); Aguero 7.5 (Dzeko 90)
11426
The hilarious moment took place at the Hengdaohezi Siberian Tiger Park in Northeast China and was captured by photographer Libby Zhang.
11427
But, it seems, in the dressing room, it is his status as the club's premier sprinter, rather than as a defender, that is most in question, after he beat Theo Walcott's 40 metre club sprint record last summer.
11428
The incident occurred while Bou Bou's mom Alecia Phonesavanh was staying with her husband, their three daughters and their baby son in the living room of her sister-in-law's home just outside of Atlanta .
11429
Named after the patron saint of Bulgaria, the crumbling stone structure now cuts a ghostly figure in a few feet of water at the Zhrebchevo reservoir, near the town of Tvardica.
11430
A goal to the good via Virgil van Dijk's superb 16th minute free-kick the Parkhead side were denied a clear penalty kick – followed by an Inverness red card for Josh Meekings - before half-time.
11431
Raheem Sterling has prompted new concerns over smoking after fresh pictures emerged of him holding a shisha pipe – this time joined by his teenage Liverpool team-mate Jordon Ibe.
11432
Tens of thousands of people have speculated on what the UFO could be, suggesting everything from police or emergence services helicopters, to a kind of optical illusion or even an alien craft.
11433
Abad and fellow officer Patrik Kudlac were critically injured in the crash while another cop Frank Viggiano and friend Joe Rodriguez died .
11434
However, Spurs are facing stiff competition in the race to land Ayew, with a host of Europe's leading clubs also on his case.
11435
Nursed originally on milk form bottles custard creams were introduced into their diet slowly to see whether the cubs were ready for food.
11436
ARTY artichoke water is said to contain minerals including iron, potassium, vitamin C and magnesium .
Price: £49 for a  pack of 12 500ml bottles of True Nopal .
11437
23.The executing commander and doctors check the condition of the convicted person and if the doctor thinks that the convict is still showing signs of life, the prosecutor makes an order to the shooting commander .
11438
Guardiola, a two-time Champions League winner with Barcelona and Super Cup winner with Bayern, showed his former fellow Spain squad member plenty of respect ahead of the match.
11439
Co-host David 'Kochie' Koch seemed taken aback by the comment, taking a confused glance in the 37-year-old's direction.
Co
Unhappy viewers:
11440
AJ Hadsell has been missing since March 2 and on Thursday, police announced they had found remains 40 miles from her home.
Search:
Concern:
11441
The little owl's sibling rivalry then gets the better of him, as he swoops under his sibling's wing, prompting an amusing game of tug-of-war.
11442
By the mid-Forties, Italian designers began to take their inspiration from Hollywood femme fatales rather than Parisian fashion.
11443
Henry VIII may have been conceived in the bed .
The strength of sinne is the lawe' - which was added after 1547, when England had a Protestant monarch.
11444
The cardboard gnome was signed by all four members of the Beatles after starring on the iconic cover of the Fab Four's 1967 album Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band .
11445
The hippo attempted to scare off the three-year-old lions as they tried to attack the mammal at the nature reserve in the west of Zimbabwe .
11446
'He said, "I just want to get this behind me.
'He made some bad choices, but at the end of the day he wanted to make them right and he stepped up,' Melton said.
11447
Jessica Cleland, from Wallan, Victoria, was 19 when she took her own life on Easter Saturday last year, after receiving Facebook messages from two teenage boys she considered friends saying that they hated her, and that she was a 'f***ing sook'.
11448
Struggle:
Mrs Hughes said her husband had his own lawyer in Washington, but she has hired an attorney, Paul Carr, in Florida to represent her .
11449
Asked if they would consider voting Conservative to stop a Miliband-Sturgeon alliance running the country, nearly two in five Ukip supporters said yes, against one in two who said no.
11450
Special Warfare Operator 1st Class Brett Allen Marihugh (left) of Livonia, Michigan, died Sunday after he and 32-year-old Special Warfare Operator 1st Class Seth Cody Lewis were found unresponsive at the bottom of a swimming pool from what officials called a 'training accident'
11451
Mirallas has made no secret of his ambition to play in the Champions League and Martinez, whose side face Swansea on Saturday, will speak to him after the final game about what his intentions are moving forward.
11452
The wing is able to ‘bend’ through angles from -2 degrees up to 30 degrees.
 The project is a collaboration between Nasa, the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) and FlexSys Inc from Ann Arbor Michigan.
11453
The driver, who is named Ashley X after changing his surname by deed poll, was caught on camera driving his Honda sports car at 67mph on a 50mph section of the M11 in Essex in 2009.
11454
Gary Neville believes Manchester United face their toughest test of the season when they visit  Premier League leaders Chelsea on Saturday - but feels their current form means they can beat anyone.
11455
A black flamingo was reportedly last spotted in Israel in 2014 and aside from its colour, it is no different to the hundreds of pink flamingos which flock to the salt lakes of Cyprus every spring.
11456
The Internet has countless local area networks that then connect with larger, regional networks and ultimately with the backbone of the Internet.
11457
The four-bedroom property in central London's Farm Street has all the trappings of modern luxury with an indoor swimming pool, gym, lift, cinema room and roof terrace.
11458
The teenager said: 'I didn't want anything to do with it at first but we measured my tongue and found out that it was [the world's widest]' Vicki measuring her husband's tongue.
11459
Kentucky is the first of this year's major competitions and Phillips had aimed high with High Kingdom there, although the horse is also entered for the Mitsubishi Motors Badminton Horse Trials, which begin on May 7.
11460
Celebrity residents and good commuter links to the City have made Esher in Surrey the country’s number one income tax hotspot, research shows.
11461
Michelle Filkins, 44, of West Wareham has been charged with breaking and entering, larceny over $250, and the malicious destruction of property after she was arrested on April 17 .
11462
The Labour leader announced plans to overhaul Britain's non-domicile regime, which allows 116,000 foreigners and people with foreign links to pay tax only on money that they bring into Britain.
11463
‎In court last week, the judge hailed the ‘enormous courage’ of Tower Hamlets residents Mr Erlam, 64, Angela Moffat, 47, Azmal Hussein, 63, and Debbie Simone, 44.
11464
Passengers have even commented on how his smile always looks the same and Uncle Teng said it is because it comes from within.
Feel good factor:
11465
Oliver was arrested on his release from hospital and charged with attempted gross sexual assault, unlawful sexual touching and failing to comply with the sex offender registration act for not updating his address .
11466
Celtic's Treble dream died on Sunday with striker Leigh Griffiths pointing the finger of blame squarely at the officials after his side's shock Scottish Cup semi-final defeat by Inverness.
'I have asked the centre-half in the second half if it has hit his hand or his face - and he said it his hand 100 per cent, so in my book that's a penalty and a red card,' continued Griffiths.
11467
The 'battle of Holland' was nothing short of sensational as Raymond van Barnevald defeated World No 1 Michael van Gerwen - earning the bragging rights and giving himself a fighting chance of qualifying for the showdown at the 02 Arena.
11468
Superior Court Judge M. Marc Kelly told an Orange County jury that 20-year-old Kevin Jonas Rojano-Nieto 'did not intend to harm' the three-year-old girl he raped at his family home in June.
11469
The jury was not aware of what had happened outside the courthouse when they decided they could not reach a verdict in the 75-year-old's case, according to New England Cable News.
11470
Cruise & Maritime Voyages's commercial director Chris Coates said: 'The delay of the MV Azores overnight in Lisbon related to a historic local issue with the vessel's owning company, Portuscale Cruises from whom Cruise & Maritime Voyages charter the ship using our own crew.
11471
The 60-year-old stole almost £3,500 from the fund raised by parents, teachers and pupils over a period of more than three years at Irlam Primary School in Greater Manchester.
11472
The birds were also jammed into drawers, shoved through barely open windows (above), squeezed to death and even chased by a dog, Walsall Magistrates Court heard .
11473
Posters promoting a 'straight pride' week at a northeast Ohio university were removed this week after student leaders determined that the message went beyond free speech.
11474
Barcelona attacker Neymar has the skills to pay the bills and his latest Instagram offering certainly proves that.
11475
Christopher Eccleston (pictured with Billie Piper on Doctor Who) has suggested he quit the show after falling out with show bosses over his decision to play the character with a strong northern accent .
11476
Air crash investigators have recovered more body parts from the site where MH17 fell in eastern Ukraine after the Boeing 777 was shot out of the sky nine months ago.
11477
Christine Blower, National Union of Teachers General Secretary, has called for a ‘positive portrayal of same sex relationships’ in lessons to be made ‘compulsory’ under the next government .
11478
Ultimately, the outcome will be at the discretion of a judge, but it would be unlikely that Loeb would be able to use the embryos without Sofia's consent, according to a legal expert who spoke to InTouch .
11479
Trolls were also more likely to have had posts deleted than other users and over the 18 month study period, the number of deleted posts by FBUs increased.
11480
As she was discharged from hospital, the teenager (pictured with her mom) said she was 'happy' to be heading back to her Hartford home after spending five months undergoing chemotherapy to save her life .
11481
Pep Guardiola has denied claims of a dispute with former Bayern Munich club doctor Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt, who quit the club on Thursday after 'being blamed' for the defeat by Porto.
11482
Cesc Fabregas showed off the result of a nasty-looking clash with Charlie Adam's arm during Chelsea's victory against Stoke City at Stamford Bridge on Saturday.
11483
West Brom are watching Nice forward Alassane Plea.
West Brom are weighing up the possibility of signing Nice forward and ex-Lyon trainee Alassane Plea (right)
11484
After Youngs came back, Chris Wyles went over for a third after some shocking defence and with more than half-an-hour left Saracens should have earned a bonus point.
11485
As the men wrestled, and with McKerry still holding the axe, Mr Dhillon's wife Sam helped, hitting him twice with a baseball bat to make him drop the weapon.
11486
But children's rights advocates are urging Pope Francis to do much more to deal with clergy who become embroiled in child sex scandals.
Action:
11487
One use of the newly developed catalyst could be to store the energy produced by solar power by using the electricity to produce hydrogen which can then be used on demand, regardless of the time of day.
11488
Fans group AshleyOut.com are now encouraging supporters to ‘Stand Up To Ashley’ when Swansea visit St James’ Park on Saturday.
It was strange,’ he said.
11489
In May 2011, after a long running trial during which he was dubbed 'The Black Widower', Webster was found guilty of murdering Claire, attempting to murder Felicity and attempting to bigamously marry a third woman to gain access to her estate.
