0
He later appeared in a handful of Burt Reynolds' movies, including "Hooper" and "The End."
But Best will always be best known for his "Hazzard" role, which lives on in reruns.
1
They pleaded not guilty in Nassau County District Court, according to authorities.
Moschetto allegedly told officers during one buy that he needed dynamite to "blow up a building."
2
He told me that he "gets letters every day from people who say, 'you know what, the Affordable Care Act saved my life or saved my kid's life because I got insurance.'
3
The rights group ILGA-Europe said in a May 2014 report that Russia was the worst place in Europe (out of 49 countries) for LGBTI people to live.
4
Instead, Rubio has embraced a typical conservative approach to immigration.
Immigration and Cuba policy aside, Rubio's political philosophy will be a tough sell to Hispanics.
5
2. "Turn: Washington's Spies," 9 p.m. ET, Monday, AMC .
Bell hopes the series might bring more recognition to the Culper spy ring and everything it did.
6
Flight 448 can you please tell somebody (to) stop it."
The pilot radioed air traffic control and said he would make an emergency landing.
7
For the next decade, Omar commanded rebel groups "against the invading Russians and their internal communist puppets," according to the biography.
8
CNN confirms that Michelle MacLaren is leaving the upcoming "Wonder Woman" movie (The Hollywood Reporter first broke the story).
(CNN and Warner Bros. Pictures are both owned by Time Warner.)
9
It is unclear, but the thieves may have spent the night in the basement in or near the vault.
Police said Thursday there was no sign of forced entry.
10
Singleton said he had seen her, but it didn't make sense that his mother would be there.
Her son said that once they got home from the mall he understood why she pulled him out of the crowd.
11
And Dr. Green believes incisions made with these blades heal faster.
"Four weeks later the difference was quite remarkable -- there was very much a difference in scarring."
12
A Saudi source also confirmed to CNN's Nic Robertson that three Saudi soldiers were killed in the shelling.
13
Washington (CNN)Nearly 6 in 10 Americans say that businesses that provide wedding-related services should be required to provide those services to same-sex couples in the same way they would all other customers, even if they have religious objections.
14
There, Holmes ran cross-country, played soccer and later worked at a biotechnology internship at the Salk Institute and Miramar College, which attracts academically talented students.
15
Thapa said an entire military post was lost during an avalanche.
On landing, the team went to a hospital where all the injured from six surrounding districts are being brought.
16
(CNN)We did it again, in another American city.
We let the violence flow.
About how slavery and its legacy are artifacts of a time past.
17
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
Holbrook said.
18
He was killed in the police operation to end the siege.
CNN's Ariana Williams reported from Paris, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London.
19
The news release added that the lawyer has been advised that the police union that Slager belongs to "is no longer involved in the case."
20
(CNN)Arizona investigators have released dramatic video of a Walmart parking lot brawl that left a police officer wounded, one man dead, and reportedly involved members of a Christian family band.
21
"I've finally been invited, and I love it," said the 74-year-old drummer.
She found him in the tub dressed in black and she sat on the toilet and talked with him.
22
A TSA official tells CNN that Boykin worked in an administrative capacity and didn't engage in public security screening.
Boykin was terminated last year when the investigation began.
23
Separate surveys conducted by PRRI and other groups show much of the newfound religious support for same-sex marriage is coming from younger Americans.
24
This may prove to be an embarrassment, as the Telegraph newspaper reported that the alarm at the business sounded Friday but, as the front and back doors still appeared locked, no action was taken.
25
Nairobi, Kenya (CNN)University of Nairobi students were terrified Sunday morning when they heard explosions -- caused by a faulty electrical cable -- and believed it was a terror attack, the school said.
26
A senior Saudi official told CNN that the Houthis agreed to "nearly all demands" of the U.N. Security Council.
Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen?
27
The man on the phone was offering us young children with the casualness of a market trader.
"We can get," he said.
Laughing again at $300.
28
The birth of any baby is cause for celebration, but given recent changes in the laws of succession, her arrival would be a historical one.
29
But five years later, local officials say the city is much safer, and plans are underway to lure foreign tourists and investors back to Juarez.
Juarez was at one time the deadliest city in the world."
30
Video of the car striking Valencia sparking nationwide debate on what type of force police should use to go after armed suspects.
31
According to Harold Taveres, a liaison to the mayor of Praia involved with promoting the festival, "KJF has become one of the most spectacular events in Cape Verde.
32
"My family is still living in the provinces," one of the men tells me.
Now the bases are gone, and the trucks that once supplied millions sit still.
33
Meanwhile, the traveling press corps covering the foreign ministers were given coveted red badges, allowing them access to the hotel, where the talks took place.
34
Team member Devin Patel described the moment of terror: "The fish was flopping on my legs.
It was so slippery that I couldn't get a grip on it."
35
Noting he's made a criminal request to German authorities but is for now conducting his own investigation, the French prosecutor said he is tasked with an involuntary homicide investigation.
36
Feidin showed the video to the Scott family.
When Scott's brother Anthony saw the video, he was convinced Slager's account of what happened was not true, he told CNN.
37
She found one article about a Newfoundland whose owner knew something was awry only when he heard an alarm go off from his dog's belly.
38
On Tuesday, in the midst of the hostage crisis at the court house, the Turkish government imposed a gag order banning broadcasters from reporting on the Palace of Justice siege.
39
Sanaa, Yemen (CNN)Al Qaeda fighters attacked a prison in the coastal Yemeni city of Al Mukallah early Thursday, freeing at least 270 prisoners, a third of whom have al Qaeda links, a senior Defense Ministry official has told CNN.
40
Another reason has to do with Dumig's interest in people's emotions and finding one's identity.
Dumig describes Sahra as someone living through an unresolved situation.
41
Oz spokesman Tim Sullivan sent an email to CNN last week listing the names of five of the 10 people who complained about Oz.
42
"Hyundai and Toyota are now extremely successful but it took them decades to move away from being perceived as lower end and lower quality than U.S. cars," said Tsang.
43
"In an unprecedented flyby this July, our knowledge of what the Pluto system is really like will expand exponentially, and I have no doubt there will be exciting discoveries," said John Grunsfeld, an astronaut and associate administrator of the NASA Science Mission Directorate.
44
According to the lawsuit, Paul Nungesser was cleared of responsibility in Emma Sulkowicz's 2013 rape claim, as well as others that came to light after Sulkowicz went public with her allegations in various media interviews.
45
For this suffering and pain there is no excuse."
"If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened," Clarke argued.
But the defendant had other plans."
46
Police reports linked Hernandez and several other University of Florida football players to an argument in the parking lot.
Lloyd didn't own a car.
47
It said in a statement that "scientific and professional findings" showed that the safety of the reactors was assured.
48
Aston Villa continued their good form since appointing coach Tim Sherwood with a 1-0 victory over Tottenham, who fired Sherwood last season.
49
Season 3 has seen a battle for the soul of daughter Paige, the return of fan favorite Margo Martindale and Soviet agent Nina getting back in the game.
50
Violence has plunged well over half of all Syrians into such destitution that they are in dire need of survival aid, the United Nations says, as food rations are being cut for lack of donations.
51
"Mr. Scott never tried to fight," Santana told CNN.
In an interview with NBC's Matt Lauer, Santana suggested that he was giving media interviews in part to protect himself against retribution.
52
(CNN)Protests are gaining steam in Baltimore after a man died from a devastating injury he allegedly suffered while in police custody.
Police didn't admit fault in any of the cases.
53
He originally signed on to direct the project but noted that there was "not enough money offered to do the script the way I felt needed to be done."
54
Global capitalism is a juggernaut, with the world economy now doubling in size every generation.
 The environment is a nuisance and a hindrance to greed.
55
Then the terror began.
Needless to say, that aim isn't shared in most places -- particularly in Kenya, where more than 80% of citizens are Christian.
56
That promised investigation has been hampered by politics and disagreements between the families and the government over who should participate in the investigation.
57
Last week, newly obtained video from newspaper O Globo showed a sailor crashing into trash floating on Guanabara Bay.
58
"He was not a dangerous person."
Anthony Scott said he watched the video that showed his brother getting shot dead, footage that has traumatized the family.
59
It's a phenomenon observed in Norway and other European nations, where clusters of young people have been lured to ISIS.
How ISIS is luring Westerners .
60
For primary training, Lufthansa utilizes an ab initio (from the beginning) program based at a facility the airline owns in Goodyear, Arizona, near Phoenix.
61
In practice, it means official eating/drinking fests involving multiple rounds of alcohol at multiple venues.
The pressure to participate is intense.
62
A 14-year-old girl was returned to Mexico from Texas on Wednesday after DNA tests showed she's not related to a woman who claimed the teenager was her daughter.
63
Gordon Getty spearheaded the controversial sale of Getty to Texaco for $10 billion in 1984.
In his request, Getty said he had been diagnosed with a serious medical condition in 2013.
64
Most part-time employees are doing low-wage work.
Congress should help low-wage workers gain access to predictable work schedules.
65
Justice Anthony Kennedy, widely believed to be the key swing vote amidst a court otherwise generally evenly divided along ideological lines, at one point referred to "the nobility and the sacredness of marriage."
66
Since then, "drinking a chalice of poison" has became part of Iranian political lexicon, and many analysts have asked whether Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Khomeini's successor, would raise the chalice and surrender to demands by the West to end Iran's nuclear program.
67
The U.S. welcomes some of Iran's support for Iraqi forces in the fight against ISIS, but says at this point that there simply is no basis for deeper cooperation on the battlefield.
68
The presentation is set to film next weekend on the Disney lot in Burbank with some of the original Muppet performers returning.
69
The founder of Weight Watchers died Wednesday at her home in Florida.
"It is our honor and responsibility to carry on her legacy to help more people to transform their lives."
70
Asked about the White House fence jumper, House Oversight Committee chairman Jason Chaffetz told CNN, "Prevention and swift apprehension is the goal.
71
She thought he could have "some involvement," the appeals court decision says, but she would be the sole parent.
CNN also reached out to his attorney Tuesday but didn't get a reply.
72
When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said.
The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters.
73
Now scientists are working on an alternative way to peer into the past and search space for signs of life with JWST -- scheduled to launch in October 2018 on an Ariane 5 rocket from French Guiana.
74
"Stop looking for him. ...
In Russia, she has maintained her innocence in the shoplifting case while also calling the charges against her sons "made up."
75
Promise after promise was made by Nigerian government officials that the girls would come home -- so where are they, and where is the global outrage over these broken promises and broken dreams?
76
After the sentencing, his Freedom and Justice Party called the trial a "travesty of justice."
Hamed was appointed by the court after Morsy's defense team withdrew.
77
Her 1992 book "Passion and Politics: The Turbulent World of the Arabs" helped bridge gaps in understanding between Arabs and Americans, critics wrote.
78
London (CNN)A Polish Prince has challenged populist British politician Nigel Farage to a duel  in London's Hyde Park over his immigration policy.
79
(Other landfills, Bouldry says, contain older, compacted trash.)
About 100 families live inside the Boragaon landfill.
Bouldry went to art school in Boston.
80
In recent years, she added, "hospitals are looking at everything they do and trying to evaluate whether or not it contributes to enhancing the patient experience."
81
During the course of the undercover operation, however, Moschetto also sold the officers two semiautomatic assault weapons as well as ammunition, prosecutors said.
82
The dancer did not pursue a case against the Bolshoi.
"I love the Russian system and I'm very patriotic in that sense," she says.
83
Burns: I'm pretty hyped for "Batman v. Superman."
As soon as I saw the trailer, my brain immediately went to the classic "Batman" [TV series] and I thought
84
I see signs of a revolution everywhere.
Hardly any government officials would agree to sit down and be interviewed on the topic.
It makes sense.
85
Tsarnaev saw the people he killed as "the enemy," she said.
Corcoran was at the finish line, waiting for her sister to cross.
"Inclines are very hard."
86
The manuscript sports the approval signature of the district's then-superintendent and reveals that Molly Ringwald's character, Claire Standish, was originally to be named Cathy Douglas, according to the Tribune.
87
"We desperately need the brainpower of all smart people to solve some of humanity's most difficult problems, and we can't afford to reject half the population's," Mainzer wrote.
88
And even when Roberts' actions -- such as effectively allowing same-sex marriage to proceed in California -- seem to suggest a willingness to consider such unions nationwide, his comments along the way make it much harder to gain insight into his ultimate thinking.
89
According to the Maritime Executive, this is the third time the Celebrity Infinity has suffered an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness, with others occurring in 2006 and 2013.
90
Abbott lamented a string of extremist attacks on Australian soil.
In December, Australian authorities stormed a Sydney chocolate cafe where a self-styled Muslim cleric had been holding hostages, killing the gunman.
91
Nor did Krakatoa in 1883, which killed thousands, and the final explosion of which reportedly ruptured the eardrums of people 40 miles away.
92
The Force is with the streaming device of your choice, thanks to this week's surprise announcement that the entire "Star Wars" saga (so far, anyway) would be released on digital HD at the end of the week.
93
Hiding outside his cell.
"We think that because he had the officer's uniform on," the sheriff explained, "that's how he was able to effectively escape."
94
A female friend was at the home where Getty died and is cooperating with investigators, Los Angeles Police Department Capt. William Hayes said.
95
"They said we are going to marry you off, you will forget your family."
'Treated like cattle': Yazidi women sold, raped, enslaved by ISIS .
96
Over the weekend, one of Bates' lawyers released most of his training documents and said they prove Bates had proper law enforcement training.
97
Two Saudi border guards were killed Friday after an exchange of fire with Houthi rebels along the kingdom's frontier with Yemen, officials told CNN.
98
The airport has previously been bombed.
Thousands have fled the country on evacuation flights in recent weeks as the situation in Yemen has deteriorated.
99
Fort Riley's security was never breached and no people were in danger
While Booker was making final connections on the "bomb," the FBI arrested him, the complaint said.
100
I love you."
"I want to be with my family more and focus on special projects," she said.
CNN's Shasta Darlington contributed to this story.
101
The warships are being deployed to monitor ships traveling from Iran that could be trafficking arms to Houthi rebels in Yemen, U.S. officials told CNN, saying the move was also meant to reassure allies in the region.
102
The campaign's purpose, the document states, is "to give every family, every small business, and every American a path to lasting prosperity by electing Hillary Clinton the next President of the United States."
103
Nissan will use Auto Shanghai 2015 to unveil the Lannia mid-size sedan, which it says has been specially created for "the rising young Chinese generation."
104
(CNN)Sarah Brady, who with her husband, James Brady, pushed for stricter gun control laws, including the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, died Friday, her family said.
105
(CNN)A TV series based on the 1999 sci-fi film "Galaxy Quest" is in the works at Paramount Television.
"Galaxy Quest" is the latest movie to be adapted for the small screen.
106
(CNN)The FBI charged a Philadelphia woman on Thursday with trying to travel overseas to fight for ISIS.
Two New York women were also taken into custody.
107
The Clown Prince of Crime will appear in 2016's "Suicide Squad," the first movie featuring the best-known comic book villain, where (as far as we know anyway), there is no Batman present.
108
Officers were called to a parking lot in Atlanta's Buckhead neighborhood, Espy said.
The drivers of the buses said the incident occurred on Interstate 285 near Interstate 75, Espy said.
109
Powers also had a regular role as "Moochie" on the CBS detective drama show, Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer, from 1984 to 1985.
Powers had a small part in "Cheech & Chong's Next Movie" (1980).
110
(CNN)Five militants from the Kurdistan Workers' Party were killed and another was wounded in clashes with Turkish armed forces in eastern Turkey, the country's military said Saturday.
111
Here's the plot synopsis, according to Den of Geek: . "A bizarre murder brings together three law-enforcement officers and a career criminal, each of whom must navigate a web of conspiracy and betrayal in the scorched landscapes of California.
112
That location is near the Cambridge Police Department headquarters.
Camilien and Colina knew each other, according to authorities.
113
Doerr's work was also a finalist for the National Book Award.
Elizabeth Kolbert's "The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History" won the Pulitzer for general nonfiction.
114
All civilians were evacuated and only emergency personnel remained on Liberty Island, according to police.
Approximately 3.5 million people visit the Statue of Liberty every year.
115
And when a third comes along, it's such a wonderful, wonderful feeling."
McCoy's fifth placed finish means he will race again at least once more, in two weeks time at Sandown.
116
Instead of mounting a defense of the indefensible claims he delivers so easily and often, Dr. Oz routed his critics by quickly pivoting to the undercurrents of their letter.
117
SkyWest also said there was no problem with the plane's door, which some media initially reported.
"You know that these pilots knew they were in a very grave and very serious situation."
118
Italian authorities have arrested 15 people on suspicion of murdering the Christians at sea, police in Palermo, Sicily, said.
119
The people I find most beautiful are the ones who aren't trying."
Also making the "most beautiful" cut this year: Gabrielle Union, Ariana Grande and Laverne Cox.
120
The killing was "heinous, cruel and depraved."
Tsarnaev displayed both.
Tamerlan was the source of his younger brother's malicious intent.
121
As Sideri describes it, his partner entered the bank and handed the teller a cell phone.
And he completed probation last month.
"They have no idea about who or what I am now."
122
But all that changed Thursday when Trey asked Ellie to be his prom date.
They were thrilled.
"Trey has worked pretty hard, and he's a good son."
123
She left the facility when she married."
In February, three New York men were arrested and accused of a failed attempt to join ISIS in Syria, prosecutors said.
124
During closing arguments, Prosecutor William McCauley called the football player the trigger man.
Her sister is Hernandez's fiancée.
DJ Hernandez .
125
In New York, a Democratic candidate for Congress, Martha Robertson, drew laughs from the audience during a debate for accusing her opponent of engaging in a "war on women."
126
Now that Marvel has the rights to the "Man Without Fear" back, they've decided to launch several series for Netflix, starting with this dark, gritty drama about blind lawyer Matt Murdock, and his moonlighting as a costumed avenger (no pun intended).
127
#ProudDaughter," Kim tweeted.
"I accept that Bruce Jenner is a Republican and wish him happiness, even if I can't understand it," said Johnny McNulty.
128
Investigators were to meet with her this week.
Authorities have three sworn statements from witnesses stating that the assault happened, Corley said.
129
Officials said that volcanic flows from Calbuco caused rising water levels in the Río Blanco.
The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region.
130
She lay awake, she says, in a village mosque on the Yemeni island of Birim, counting explosions as the baby cried.
That the fear would stay with her forever."
131
The U.S. military official didn't know yet what motivated the shooting.
The defense official did not provide the nationalities of the injured Resolute Support troops.
132
(CNN)It was a busy week for trending stories.
This cast continues to draw lots of interest on social media.
Kudos for originality this week.
133
Members of our team are trained medics.
I had come to see how serious the situation is and how local and state authorities are coping.
134
Or Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal: "I certainly will support Ted Cruz and others that are talking about making ... a constitutional amendment to allow states to continue to define marriage."
135
It only heightens the flames, or fans the flames of people who are already on edge."
If that was my son that ended up the same way, I would be angry," he told CNN.
136
(CNN)A group of six young Minnesota men conspired to sneak into Syria and join ISIS "by any means necessary," federal prosecutors said Monday.
137
Ash spread to Argentina in the second eruption, which occurred a day after the first.
Evacuations in the region involved not only people but also animals.
138
White will wrap his touring efforts in support of "Lazeretto" with a brief, first-ever acoustic tour that will hit "the only five states left in the U.S. that he has yet to play," according to White's website.
139
Responding to the allegations for the first time in an exclusive interview with CNN, Choudhury said he wanted to set the record straight.
140
This inclusiveness was cheered by at least one gay news service on Twitter.
Apple has "evolved" in showing diversity -- from brown people to same-sex couples.
141
The Saudi-led coalition said a new initiative was underway, Operation Renewal of Hope, focused on the political process.
Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen?
142
One of the reasons Hermann did not create the flower sellers' portraits directly inside the market is because of the hectic atmosphere.
143
(Otherwise, we have no challenge to solve.)
 The New York Times and the Washington Post have also posted solutions to the problem, along with explanations.
144
The next two years became a blur of sick days and doctors' appointments.
They can affect every system in the body, Afrin says, so the disease is capable of causing all the symptoms Brynn experiences.
145
Focus on the mystery intensified in December after a fan Twitter account posted a direct message from Lavigne when she solicited prayers, saying she was "having some health issues."
146
In 1944, Anne and seven others hiding in the Amsterdam secret annex were arrested and sent to the  Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp.
147
"Silas was the middle name of Timberlake's maternal grandfather Bill Bomar, who died in 2012, while Randall is the musician's own middle name, as well as his father's first," People reports.
148
A statement from Troy University confirmed the two men are current students.
Calhoun and Martistee will have their first court appearance Saturday morning, a Bay County deputy said.
149
It is aimed at destabilizing the internal political situation in Ukraine and discrediting the political choice of the Ukrainian people."
150
Indonesia's domestic political context and the need to be seen as not giving favorable treatment to foreigners left him very little room to maneuver.
151
Her 1994 hit "All I Want For Christmas is You" is a classic, and admit it: You start listening to it well before the holiday season even begins.
152
April 8, 2015 .
TRANSCRIPT .
ROLL CALL .
You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
153
It did not lead to the American aid worker's release, and he was inadvertently killed in an anti-terror strike in January, the White House announced Thursday.
154
Her video message on Sunday centered on the theme of upward mobility and an economic recovery that has left some behind.
155
(CNN)Never mind cats having nine lives.
She was taken in by Moses Lake, Washington, resident Sara Mellado.
I agreed to foster her until she finally found a loving home."
156
That typhoon, considered to be among the strongest storms ever to make landfall, hit the eastern city of Tacloban especially hard.
157
(CNN)They may not be "Star Trek"-type extraterrestrials, but we may be close to finding evidence of alien life, a NASA scientist says.
"We are not talking about little green men," Stofan said at the panel.
158
According to the IPAC report, the SAF "blocking" company eventually ran out of ammunition and only one of their number survived, .
159
WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ .
5. What nation is leading airstrikes against Yemen, following a governmental takeover there by Houthi rebels?
7.
8.
9.
160
When Bursch said the rate of out-of-wedlock birth has gone up in the country, Kennedy noted that if Bursch were to prevail, it might be difficult for same-sex couples to "adopt some of these children."
161
Jeff Green, then playing for the Boston Celtics, was looking forward to getting back to the hardwood.
"I feel like the year I missed really added more years," he explained.
162
Even though he looked calm, defense lawyer Tamara Brady started her question and answer session with jurors Tuesday by expression concerns about Holmes getting a fair and impartial trial, saying "I'm nervous" and "my client is nervous."
163
The project was bequeathed its classroom above the mosque it shares a building with, and Agyare says the two work closely together.
164
Some will even serve beer.
So if you're a music geek, drop by.
But you might think twice before asking if they stock "I Just Called to Say I Love You."
165
Cities and corporations are joining in as well.
Yet these trends alone are not enough to counter the mounting climate-related impacts that we are already seeing.
166
The President admitted as much when he conceded that "in year 13, 14, 15, they have advanced centrifuges that enrich uranium fairly rapidly, and at that point the breakout times would have shrunk almost down to zero."
167
Though Indonesian officials said all 10 would be executed at the same time, Spontana said French national Serge Atlaoui had filed a challenge to the State Administrative Court on Thursday so his sentence has been delayed.
168
Its subjects have taken the show to heart.
With the '60s screaming towards their conclusion, "Mad Men" probably won't jump ahead much.
169
The Nevada State Athletic Commission said Bayless, who has officiated more than 100 title contests, would take charge of the most anticipated bout in recent boxing history at the MGM Grand.
170
As the only Gulf national in the CNN team, I am expected to be familiar with camel racing, an ancient tradition in the region.
It is oddly beautiful.
171
From cronuts to ramen burgers, here are some foods that people around the world have spent hours of their lives waiting for.
172
Another deputy said that she signed a driving certificate for Bates, even though she believed he had not completed the training.
173
Jerusalem (CNN)The Israeli military conducted airstrikes Sunday night in the area between Israel and Syria, targeting a group of militants allegedly trying to plant a bomb on the Israeli border.
174
So many more are desperate to leave.
I asked Higgins about the sense of abandonment Muna and many of the other Americans trapped in Yemen said they felt.
175
At his daily briefing on Tuesday, Saudi Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri told reporters that the ties between the rebels and Iran were clear.
176
Doyne went with her.
The CNN Heroes team traveled to Surkhet and talked to Doyne about her work and the community she supports.
Every single year we'll get from 1,000 to 1,500 applicants.
177
Devastating winds lashed cars and homes.
The severe weather caused a local creek to break its banks and now the flooding is seeping into the neighborhood.
178
Passengers were forced to wait in the seats on board the Boeing 777 for more than two hours before the service was canceled.
179
(CNN)The Question: How can I know if my food is safe to eat after a specific product recall?
"Discarding or returning the product to the store is all that can be done."
180
It's within "striking distance" of Mohamud's stronghold in Somalia's Middle Juba province, Hansen told CNN.
"I previously told the government that the son is missing.
181
On Wednesday night, Brady had a front-row seat at what was hailed as a historic moment in Brazil's fashion world.
182
Now, the nets say you should stick your lips in a shot glass, suck all the air out and then pull it off to reveal your all-new plump kisser, just like Kylie Jenner.
183
And while this kind of reflection is rarely pleasant, it is critical in order to avoid another tragedy on the scale of the BP spill, or potentially much worse.
184
Tokyo (CNN)A former school principal in Japan says he paid for sex with more than 12,000 women -- some of them girls as young as 14 -- during repeated visits to the Philippines over more than a quarter of a century, according to police.
185
However, officials say China and other nations are rapidly expanding the size and scope of their own submarine forces.
186
The Egyptians and the Jordanians are still supportive of Saudi efforts and claim publicly to be open to the idea of deploying military forces to assist Riyadh in Yemen.
187
Political apathy is on the rise in the UK, with many younger voters expressing disillusionment with party leaders they say are out of touch and barely distinguishable from one another, even if one "looks like a panda" and the other a "pink condom."
188
Yet at the state and local level, the story has been much different.
Liberal Democrats have found more political space to move forward with their initiatives.
189
"We've never seen anything like this in boxing, and I don't think in any sporting event," Bob Arum, Pacquiao's promoter, told CNN, .
And Arum isn't worried that the steep prices would keep fans away.
190
But there were good signs, as seen on the live stream and Dallas Zoo's Twitter feed -- like its ears moving, its efforts to stand, and its nursing (or at least trying to nurse) from mom.
191
Senate Republicans adamantly deny the delay in scheduling a vote on Lynch's nomination is because she is African-American.
192
Although most staff members and civilians have been rescued, an exchange of fire between Afghan security forces and the assailants is ongoing, the statement says.
193
Despite being away from the show for most of the past eight years, Barker didn't seem to miss a beat.
194
The employee even threatens to make the video public.
Did McHenry keep going because she has that much of a self-destructive streak?
195
Last year, the bluesman suffered from dehydration and exhaustion after a show in Chicago, forcing him to cancel the remainder of his tour.
196
Some court security officers who escort him are as tall and muscular as he is.
Hernandez does not avoid looking in their direction.
197
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show.
198
(CNN)Sabra Dipping Co. is recalling 30,000 cases of hummus due to possible contamination with Listeria, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday.
The FDA issued a list of the products in the recall.
199
"I didn't execute.
He said his team struggled to guard Wisconsin's players, and the rebound battle -- which Wisconsin won by 12 -- was crucial.
200
Contrary to common belief, Muslims aren't unusually predisposed to violence.
To fight extremism, we don't need to reform Islam.
Rather than help Muslims, it's harming them.
201
"I tried my best but it was not good enough today.
After winning the Australian Open back in January, Djokovic has followed up with Masters' victories at Indian Wells and Miami.
202
"With the previous attacks, there's been a sense of the victims just being numbers,"  Doreen Areri said.
Kenya's Interior Ministry named Mohamed Mohamud as the organizer of the attack.
203
The scene is derived from a filmed bit that Monty Python uses during its live shows.
The original version of "Galaxy Song" is below.
204
I also have a new girlfriend -- she's 28," he said.
Baldwin said on Twitter that she's taking it as a "crazy compliment" and shared a clip from the skit.
205
A dramatic interview with a famed spiritual leader -- and the tearful reaction by one of his former students.
Tyson sold the house in 1999; it's due to become, of all things, a church.
206
McGurk did not rule out expanding U.S. military action beyond Iraq and Syria to combat the increasing regional threat.
207
(CNN)With help from some filmmakers, 102-year-old Alice Barker went back in time.
There were motion pictures made of Barker, but she had never seen any of them.
208
"It's bringing to London the best of the continent."
"Educated in the U.S., UK and different parts of Europe their taste is definitely more modern and clean."
209
CNN asked Afzal Ashraf, a counterinsurgency specialist and consulting fellow at the Royal United Services Institute to give us a steer on what this new data tells us about the fight against ISIS in Iraq.
210
Some say that Japan has already apologized enough and it's time to move on.
We were U.S. citizens, but merely because of our ancestry, the government treated us like the enemy.
211
When all McDonald's workers have more money in their pockets, they will inject money back into their neighborhoods, boosting the entire economy.
212
Typically, a prior legal agreement between a couple spells out who has ultimate authority, said fertility specialist Dr. David Tourgeman, who's not involved in this case.
213
But in recent years, its 12-man crew has joined Italy's effort to rescue migrants coming from Africa and the Middle East.
It was a bad situation.
214
trailer for Zack Snyder's upcoming "Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice" leaked online on Thursday before quickly being taken down minutes later.
215
As might be expected, Chokal-Ingam's claim hasn't gone over well in some quarters.
She "strongly disapproves of my book," he wrote, arguing that it will bring shame on the family.
216
Its report, published in 2014, predicted that by 2020, South Korea could be exposed to hacking attacks causing up to $25 billion in economic damage.
217
In early April, Al-Shabaab brutally massacred 147 people at Garissa University in northern Kenya.
Kenyan teachers and students alike are terrified.
218
Because of the attention that jihadist beheadings have commanded internationally, "the very concept of beheading, that was virtually non-existent in our unconscious prior to these events being propagated, is now there," he told CNN.
219
"On behalf of everyone in the organization, it is with a very heavy heart that we extend our deepest sympathies to those involved in today's tragic accident in Orlando," the company said.
220
The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, "to make a point.
Weinreb pointed out that after the bombing, Tsarnaev went to the grocery store.
221
"Prince Harry has trained and served alongside Australian armed forces on operational tours to Afghanistan; he has met them during the Invictus Games; and even trekked to the South Pole with a couple of Australian soldiers," the spokesman said ahead of the visit.
222
The explanation is that the Democratic Party is intellectually impoverished.
Obama was elected at one of the highest points of national Democratic popularity.
223
After the launch, SpaceX will try to guide the bottom stage of the rocket upright onto a platform, or what it calls an autonomous spaceport drone ship, in the Atlantic Ocean off Florida.
224
An FBI spokesman confirmed the agency responded to the incident.
Kerr said he fell asleep and he awakened to see the suspect trying to choke Minatel.
225
He said the family had been shocked by her murder, and called for the perpetrator to be executed.
The victims' bodies were buried after being repatriated to Indonesia in November.
226
In every case, the bank in question was listed as a sponsor of the event even after the investigations were widely reported in the media."
227
It could have been worse as severe tornado damage dotted a path not far from the dense populations of Chicago and Rockford -- the state's third largest city.
228
Previously, authorities had said her whereabouts were unknown.
Before allegedly fleeing the country, Genevieve Kelley had accused her ex-husband of abusing their child.
229
More to die if not heli asap."
He turned back in 2013 "because it didn't feel right" and survived last year's avalanche, according to his wife Susan.
230
But Scott went for the Taser, according to Slager.
A widely circulated video of the shooting death of the 50-year-old unarmed African-American man by the white police officer tells another story: Scott attempts to run.
231
(CNN)Pope Francis will visit Cuba on his way to the United States in September, the Vatican said Wednesday -- a trip that will come months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two countries.
232
Mui left school with no qualifications.
There's even talk she might take part in a fashion show for people with visible difference, realizing a childhood dream.
233
McLean told Rolling Stone that it was time to part with the manuscript.
"These are things I never had in my head for a second when I wrote the song.
234
Some residents did have their vote on.
If some residents saw Fletcher as part of the problem, Heidemann asked why no one complained when Fletcher was mayor.
235
The organization also claims that the Syrian government has dropped barrel bombs on the camp as recently as Sunday in an effort to drive out armed groups.
236
(CNN)Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has been caught on camera guzzling a glass of beer in seven seconds amid raucous cheers from onlookers.
Some commentators focused on Abbott's drinking technique.
237
He said he reached for a nearby bowl "before she could."
Mack told the court her mother had threatened to kill the couple's unborn baby, according to local media.
238
The woman pretended to be going to Jos and lingered around the bus, which was ‎waiting to fill up with passengers, according to Falalu Tasiu, a grocer near the bus station.
239
Yemen has been descending into chaos in the weeks since Houthi rebels -- who have long complained of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- forced Hadi from power.
240
Since his election in 2013, Pope Francis has displayed a deep interest in international affairs.
241
Mehrotra says patients should really only go to the doctor if something is wrong, or if it's time to have an important preventive test like a colonoscopy.
242
Writing in a column in The Australian, cricket writer Gideon Haigh wrote "television was Benaud's calling, suiting his captain's spontaneity and intuition.
243
The notes project, she says, is a culmination of keeping her eyes on the sidewalk and spotting the little things that most people wouldn't notice as they walked down the street.
244
Today, the Ansarullah group is receiving political, financial and military support from Iran.
The situation is only likely to deteriorate as the fighting continues.
245
As the moon moves deeper into that shadow, it appears to turn dark and may even appear to be a reddish color.
Did you see the total lunar eclipse?
246
Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) deployed the remote-controlled robot on Friday inside one of the damaged reactors that had suffered a meltdown following a devastating earthquake and tsunami in 2011.
247
Durst has long maintained that he had nothing to do with Berman's death or his wife's disappearance.
Doctors implanted a stent on the right side of his head, the attorney said.
248
Savage's office said in a written statement that it has yet to receive "any investigative documents, audio or video tapes, other than a copy of Mr. Slager's arrest warrant."
249
(CNN)A dress worn by Vivien Leigh as she played Scarlett O'Hara in "Gone With the Wind" has fetched $137,000 at an auction.
250
The photographer wasn't sure it would work, but they found just the right picture of Smith -- one that has him looking over his family's shoulder.
251
(CNN)The leader of Yemen's Houthi rebels vowed not to back down on Sunday as a top Saudi military official claimed weeks of airstrikes had significantly weakened the Shiite group.
252
Not knowing when the car might burst into full flame, they scrambled to save her, while a police dash cam rolled.
Its horn was blaring.
253
"There's something emotional that happens to you, where you walk out of this movie and you appreciate everyone you love because you just never know when the last day is you're gonna see them."
254
Dutch retail chain Spar, which has expanded its supermarket to two floors, explained on its website that it had re-launched last year during the mall's "upgrading and retrofitting program."
255
On Thursday's edition of the popular game show, model Manuela Arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game for a new Hyundai Sonata.
But everything turned out OK, she tweeted later.
256
Observation of a knife is definitely a safety concern.
Any excessive force claims after the arrest are not covered by the Fourth Amendment.
257
Thai Smile, a subsidiary of Thailand flag carrier Thai Airways, on Thursday unveiled colorful new livery featuring Jake, Finn and the beloved Princess Bubblegum sprawled across an Airbus A320 at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi International Airport.
258
(CNN)I usually think of April as tax month, but it seems to be morphing into National Get Tested Month.
Of course, there have been genuine advances in diagnostic testing.
259
Right now, the U.S. government won't communicate much with the families about their loved ones because the relatives don't have the requisite security clearances.
260
"Pepper" is a humanoid robot that "chats" with customers.
One group that seems willing to embrace robots are Japan's senior citizens.
261
The professor at the Texas A&M University Galveston Campus expected his missive would create some conflict, but that it could then be resolved quickly -- and quietly.
262
"These deaths might well have been prevented if the EU had launched a genuine search-and-rescue effort."
It stressed the need to "address the situation at its roots."
263
During the family gathering, he dashed out into the street and was struck and killed by a GMC van, according to Milwaukee police.
Damani was dead.
264
In general, it is a good thing for society to shape its laws in ways that allow people to live their lives consistent with their sincerely held religious obligations.
265
Saturday's event -- dubbed "the royal wedding of Scotland" -- took place at Dunblane Cathedral, with cheering crowds spilling onto the streets to support their home-grown talent.
266
They said that at night they go into nearby villages to try and find yet more recruits.
I know that some black flags have been seen in Wardak province, raised by ex-Taliban fighters."
267
Police interrogated Hernandez for 7½ hours before he confessed.
A judge found Ramos responsible for the boy's death and ordered him to pay the family $2 million -- money the Patz family has never received.
268
The Washington Post reports the pedestrians took the bird family to "a more enclosed grassy area" at 16th and L streets NW.
269
As attorney general, Lynch has several tools with which to guide local law enforcement toward better behavior.
270
But the hitch will not put the six ISS crew members at risk, NASA said.
According to Russian state news agency Tass, six attempts to make contact were to be made Wednesday.
271
That's part of being a sheriff's office," Clark told the newspaper.
Glanz told KFAQ radio this week that officials can't find records of Bates' firearms certification.
272
That review, which is considerably longer than the original article, reveals startling lapses in basic journalistic practice.
273
It could have been one the National Weather Service warned about in a tweet as severe thunderstorms drenched the area, causing street flooding.
274
The group's spokesman, Usama Mahmoud, on Twitter compared the Pakistani naval officers involved in the attempted hijacking to Nidal Hasan, SITE reported.
275
The idea is not just to protect endangered structures, but to offer free educational access to the digital recreations of important monuments via the web.
276
The cockpit voice recorder was found days after the crash.
Robin cast doubt that any useful information could be retrieved from those phones, given their condition.
277
Explaining that Martin died of rapid blood loss, King testified, "Receptors are generally not responsive to cutting.
She turned to ask Woolfenden if he was OK.
278
Catania, Sicily (CNN)We are at the beginning of a massive and mounting crisis with no solution in sight.
They appealed to us to help them escape.
279
"At this time I can confirm that Ben & Jerry's and New Belgium are collaborating to raise awareness around issues we are passionate about, and that the results will be delicious," New Belgium's Director of Sustainability, Jenn Vervier, said in a statement.
280
The makeup of the city's police department is unclear, though it's been widely reported that 2007 federal figures indicated it was about 80% black.
281
The rebeccafrancis.com website was apparently last updated in 2013, though it makes mention of a 2015 TV series called "Sheep Shape" on the Sportsman Channel.
282
Aircraft must enter the SFRA through specific flight "gates" that are displayed on a standard aviation map.
The engine is not designed to carry more than one pilot.
283
Killed was Terry Carter, 55.
"Even without a gun, we know Mr. Sloan was brave enough to attack in broad daylight," the defense attorney said.
284
The female-skewing cable network has greenlit "The Unauthorized Full House Story" (working title), The Hollywood Reporter has learned.
An air date for the "Full House" tell-all has yet to be determined.
285
It refuels helicopters in flight.
"I'm told that the 2,500th version of this aircraft is now on the (assembly) line inside this building," Deal said.
286
And for the first time since 1962, the U.S. has not blocked Cuba's attempt to join.
In exchange, Cuba sends doctors, military advisers and sports trainers to Venezuela.
287
(CNN)Richard Dysart, the award-winning stage actor who gained  fame playing law firm leader Leland McKenzie on "L.A. Law," has died.
He was 86.
288
(CNN)Donald Sterling's racist remarks cost him an NBA team last year.
Shelly Sterling was thrilled with the court decision Tuesday, her lawyer told CNN affiliate KABC.
289
Some of Mitchell's best-known songs are "Big Yellow Taxi," "Help Me" and "Free Man in Paris," but she has penned hits for other artists too.
290
"There is no power and families are listening to the FM radio inside their cars.
News of multiple building collapses.
People are confused.
291
The only thing we had was we could tell there was one victim," said Officer Todd Green of Bonney Lake Police Department, according to CNN affiliate KOMO.
Neighbors recounted a violent collapse.
292
Regional Gov. Mijiyawa Bakary said the insurgents have been attacking border villages in Cameroon in search of supplies.
293
The United States saw its first polio outbreak in 1894 in Vermont, with 132 cases, according to the Smithsonian.
But the vaccination effort doesn't stop.
294
Additionally, some in the National Guard seemed worried the language in the mission briefings could be problematic.
Several small arms fire incidents have occurred.
295
She dries his feet with her hair, an irresistible image for artists and dramatists.
Along with other women like Joanna and Susanna, she was one of those who made his mission viable.
296
The company's chief executive officer said in a written statement that PG&E is working to become the safest energy company in the United States.
297
The trawler is also thought to have keeled over as a result of hauling some 80 tons of fish on to the deck, the chairman of the emergencies commission in the Kamchatka region, Sergey Khabarov, told Tass.
298
GitHub said the March incident was the biggest DDoS attack in its history.
Fully encrypting Web traffic should help to defend against the Great Cannon, Scott-Railton said.
299
ISIS was ejected from the palaces compound in fierce fighting, they said, adding that there may still be booby traps.
"In the coming hours, the battle will end."
300
Asking about them is standard practice in pediatrics and psychiatry.
Bill 1318 goes a step beyond silencing doctors.
The American Medical Association can do more.
301
Three years ago, Grass drew controversy again, when he published a poem in a German newspaper discouraging Germany from selling more submarines to Israel.
302
And when someone in the audience asked his thoughts about a current ballot proposal in California that would legalize killing gay people, he said he wasn't aware of the measure but told the young man not to "worry yourself about the crazy people."
303
The organization called her a "worldwide inspiration."
As news of her death spread, social media lit up with messages honoring her life.
304
Aden, Yemen (CNN)The streets were empty but not quiet.
They said they felt they were pushing back the Houthi forces.
We are outgunned, they said.
305
According to Brzezinski's own memoir, he told Bazargan that the United States was open to any relationship the Islamic republic wanted.
306
The younger Jordan said he took his sailboat out to the Gulf Stream to find some better fishing, when it capsized.
Jodran came ashore Thursday evening.
307
Video showed both smoke and bright orange flames.
Weimer told CNN that authorities didn't know what had caused the fire, which had gone to at least four alarms.
308
The additional troops came from Camp Speicher, a fortified Iraqi base near the city of Tikrit, according to the media office of the Hasd Al-Shaabi militia.
309
The gunmen also shot her mother.
But Mahmud had just finished leading a discussion group on a topic that many want silenced, when the shots fell.
310
The girl over the past period has been using technology on social media platforms interacting with strange people and reading material that suggested she expressed an interest in joining a terrorist group called ISIS," he told broadcaster eNCA.
311
The Native American actors who spoke to ICTMN weren't laughing, however.
But by Wednesday, the Navajo actor had become disillusioned and joined others in walking out.
312
"Long live Zarif," crowds chanted as his car rolled slowly down the packed street.
Later, the website says, Zarif went to make a similar protest at the Iranian mission to the United Nations.
313
Her treatment is scheduled to wrap up this month.
The agency has denied CNN's request to speak with Cassandra or her physicians.
314
Schwartz said she's learned not to assume what her students wish.
As her idea spread, many Twitter users asked how they can help to support her students.
315
The app features the latest news about Xi and allows users to access the traditional texts that Xi quotes from.
The app drew mixed reviews online and on social media.
316
"Double Falsehood," also known as "The Distressed Lovers," is based on the "Cardenio" section of Don Quixote, the classic 17th-century novel by Miguel de Cervantes.
317
Even at his most progressive moments, President Barack Obama relied on Wall Street donations for both of his campaigns.
Reform could level the playing field.
318
But for some communities, the group is the local governing authority, picking up garbage and directing traffic.
CNN's John D. Sutter takes a measure.
319
Miliband, told by his handlers to look tough, is using the "i" word too much.
Then the two main party leaders frequently found themselves parroting "I agree with Nick."
320
Most recently, absent from the National Security Strategy produced by the Obama White House in February 2015 is any real meaningful discussion concerning threats posed by al Qaeda.
321
(CNN)The Solar Impulse 2, the experimental plane attempting to fly around the world without using a drop of fuel, has been grounded by the weather in China.
322
Hillary Clinton's online declaration for president means the focus will now shift to the campaign and to what kind of president she might be.
323
Paris Match and Bild reported that the video was recovered from a phone at the wreckage site.
The two publications described the supposed video, but did not post it on their websites.
324
The U.S. military had said that after the Iraqi leader's fall, al-Douri helped finance a Sunni insurgency with money he transferred to Syria before the government collapsed.
325
Group spokesman Sheikh Abdiaziz Musab, speaking to pro-Al-Shabaab outlet Andalus radio, said the blast targeted and killed several Somali intelligence agents.
326
She hopes that if and when life returns to normal, she will be able to live once more with her husband and son in the family home in Yarmouk.
327
The whale, named Varvara, swam nearly 14,000 miles (22,500 kilometers), according to a release from Oregon State University, whose scientists helped conduct the whale-tracking study.
328
"I see this Britt McHenry video, and think: it's not just about how a celebrity shouldn't act in public, it's how all of us shouldn't act," wrote "Cait" on Twitter.
329
She looked, Parker said, like "a little badass."
"I want to capture them before they lose that sense of 'I'm so awesome.'
"Alice is a beautiful singer.
330
But he insists the first patients will be people who are suffering from a muscle wasting disease.
He's seen how difficult it is for his NYU colleagues who perform face transplants.
331
After a short drive down a gravel road, you get the sense this is a special place.
"This is a whole family affair," he said.
The center is also focused on breeding the animals.
332
Vitali, who retired from boxing in 2013, is a prominent figure in Ukrainian politics.
"I really wish and want this conflict to be solved and it can only be solved with Western help," he said.
333
(CNN)A look at Oklahoma City, 20 years later.
As the 20th anniversary of the tragedy approaches, CNN captured video of the memorial that stands on the site today.
Some new pictures offer clues.
334
In the early 1980s, Etan's photo appeared on milk cartons across the country, and news media focused in on the search for him and other missing children.
335
Scientists found the species on the Caribbean slopes of Costa Rica.
"Costa Rica is known to have 14 glassfrogs inhabiting its tiny national territory!" the center's Facebook page said.
336
Joshua Bergasse, "On the Town" Christopher Gattelli, "The King and I" Scott Graham & Steven Hoggett for Frantic Assembly, "The Curious Incident of the Dog . in the Night-Time" Casey Nicholaw, "Something Rotten!"
337
Since Xi took power over two years ago, his government has jailed hundreds of activists across China despite rising international concern.
338
(CNN)North Korea accused Mexico of illegally holding one of its cargo ships Wednesday and demanded the release of the vessel and crew.
339
"My flight is not a secret," the post says.
Shanahan told CNN that when he searched for the site Wednesday morning, he was unable to find it.
340
Ainsworth said the Queensland police had established a joint taskforce with the RSPCA to investigate the industry in the wake of the report.
341
Baltimore police said rioting at a shopping mall and elsewhere Monday afternoon started amid rumors, spread on social media, of a "purge" led by large groups of marauding high school students.
342
There was a line of police down the street, not far away.
He shooed away young people tempted to approach them.
Young people had no business on the streets, he said.
343
"There was no need for the other five," she said.
(His mother) didn't bring back her son.
Did Mr. Hernandez win?
What prison life will be like for Aaron Hernandez .
344
Cohen-Metzger said he had a prior record.
Marana police on Thursday told CNN's Miguel Marquez that a store gun lock was still on the rifle when it was recovered.
345
The infamous Dred Scott case legitimized slavery as it declared that free African-Americans had "no rights that the white man was bound to respect."
346
At the outbreak of the American Revolution, the Old Dominion was already a century and a half old.
Generations of Lees had helped govern Virginia long before the United States was born.
347
Labeling this turmoil as xenophobic fails to convey the conditions in which African migrants are scapegoated for the persistent legacy of apartheid in the post-liberation era.
348
But Blue Bell has recalled other products.
The cup contaminated with the bacteria was produced at the Broken Arrow plant in April 2014, Blue Bell said.
349
"The evidence will show that if you sentence Jahar to a lifetime of thinking about what he did, you'll both punish him and protect society."
350
What the sheriff doesn't want is for Taylor to go free ever again.
Now that Taylor is once again locked up, the focus has shifted more to how he left in the first place.
351
(HLNtv)Actress Alyssa Milano had some angry tweets for Heathrow Airport authorities Thursday morning after workers there allegedly confiscated breast milk she'd pumped for her daughter while she was on a plane.
352
God agrees.
I can't comprehend this version of God.
I now fully understand how you could devote your life to reading and analyzing the Bible.
353
"I'm not a girl trying to be a star or trying to be anything other than a musician," she says.
A life cut short: Remembering the tragedy of Amy Winehouse .
354
"During my discussions with the national leadership here, it was agreed that we could share intelligence, particularly on the foreign terrorist fighters from Australia who are taking part in this conflict in Iraq," she said.
355
Ferguson, Missouri (CNN)At least three people were shot in separate incidents in Ferguson, Missouri, on late Tuesday and early Wednesday as hundreds of demonstrators gathered in support of protests in Baltimore, a city spokesman said.
356
Now that her treatment is complete, the temporary order of custody ends, Michtom told CNN.
Previously he said the hospital was "effectively a jail" to his client.
357
Soon after this, cross-border raids in Kenya began, predominantly targeting Christians there.
It must not be interpreted simply as another act of garden-variety fundamentalist terrorism.
358
The FBI summary report of the interview was read in court.
She said she had no idea he was listening to jihadi songs or watching al Qaeda videos on his laptop.
359
L'Hermione, with three sail masts and bright royal blue and gold markings, is a painstaking replica of an 18th century French frigate that fought with the United States' founding fathers in the War of Independence.
360
(CNN)Marvel Comics superhero Hawkeye is a master with the bow and arrow.
He's also got a secret super-talent at singing Ed Sheeran parodies.
361
Baxter had come under fire from some community leaders for giving prison sentences to eight teachers and administrators who stood trial and were convicted of racketeering.
362
But in times like this, help is always welcome.
First there's the immediate search and rescue operation, and then the long process of rebuilding work.
363
(CNN)It seems almost silly to be writing about baseball in the context of recent events.
They had been asked to do so by Baltimore officials due to  "ongoing public safety issues."
364
Similar violence happened late last week in Johannesburg, where immigrant-owned shops were looted or destroyed.
CNN's Brent Swails reported from Johannesburg.
365
The Pentagon said the incident occurred in international airspace north of Poland.
An official with the U.S. European Command said the claim that the transponder was off was false.
366
After a week of treatment, Shelby suddenly lost feeling in her legs.
Shelby's cancer, which had retreated from her spine, suddenly appeared in her brain.
Three tumors.
367
Stab resistant, Gordon says "it can take anything but a gunshot."
That the product so closely mimics DC's fantastical comic book creation has had resonance.
368
So we built a cultural village in 2006 -- before we finished, we had tourists visiting us."
And as human beings we can't afford to fail the wildlife."
369
It's beautiful," he told CNN.
This isn't the first time Hyman has used artwork to effect change: He restored a local theater to its former glory.
370
She removed her controversial post then eventually shut down her Facebook page.
Its dispatchers were overloaded with calls, the sheriff posted on Facebook.
371
But minus the off-screen tragedy, is "Furious 7" worth racing to the theater?
Chris Nashawaty, Entertainment Weekly: "No one forks over 10 bucks to see one of these flicks for its logic.
372
Santana told NBC's Lester Holt on Wednesday that he saw the two men struggling on the ground.
But Scott never got the Taser or used it on the officer, Santana told NBC.
373
According to the State Water Resources Control Board, the package will specifically accelerate $128 million from the governor's budget to provide direct assistance to workers and affected communities.
374
It's all part of National Park Week, happening April 18 through April 26, and it's hosted by the National Park Service and the National Park Foundation.
375
Jones, who was 17 at the time of the murder, will be eligible for parole starting in 2051, according to the Oklahoma Department of Corrections.
376
"The training element of the mission is no different.
Bradbury downplays this risk, saying the threat is there, and is best contained in the region.
377
Harrah's New Orleans and bar owners filed a lawsuit to stop the ban, and a hearing is scheduled in state court in a month, CNN affiliate WAPT reports.
378
The group said it launched an assault on the Baiji oil refinery late Saturday.
CNN's Jennifer Deaton and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
379
James, whose real name is Erika Leonard, has been credited with keeping a strong amount of creative control when it comes to Universal's adaptations of her books, the second of which is titled "Fifty Shades Darker."
380
It's a sentiment shared by the Turkish government, which denies that a genocide took place, maintaining that hundreds of thousands of Turkish Muslims and Armenian Christians died in intercommunal violence around the bloody battlefields of World War I.
381
The tacos will start flying this fall, when the school's new arena is scheduled to open.
"Now they're emailing me and saying, 'About the best thing we've ever bought.' "
382
Three years later, he presented "The Stan Freberg Show" on CBS Radio, where he regularly mocked commercials by advertising bogus products.
383
"We would like the US to change its rhetoric and tone of voice so that our nation could have more trust in U.S. military leadership."
384
So many people are content to settle.
The grunge scene is not what I'm interested in.
He's larger than life, and our culture is obsessed with dead musicians.
385
He claimed the vessel was found with its nets in the water, illegally catching Patagonian toothfish.
It said no requests had been received as yet.
386
CNN obtained a statement from Renner saying, "I am sorry that this tasteless joke about a fictional character offended anyone.
387
The judge spoke for less than 10 minutes, and stressed the seriousness of his warnings.
Tsarnaev lawyer Judy Clarke acknowledged in opening arguments that: "It was him."
388
Present-day sterilization plea deals involve a voluntary choice of sterilization by persons accused of a crime, and for whom sterilization will be part of their punishment.
389
The massive tech company is known for its impish April Fools' Day pranks, and Google Maps has been at the center of a few, including a Pokemon Challenge and a treasure map.
390
The latest World Health Organization Report confirmed a total of 30 new confirmed cases of Ebola were reported in the week of April 5.
WHO in Liberia is in the process of decommissioning surplus facilities.
391
All of the girls died within 24 hours.
When they found out what they were having, they decided to keep it a secret from family and friends.
392
The fraternity's executive director, Laurence Bolotin said in a statement that three fraternity members from the University of Florida have been expelled from the group.
393
The show focuses on attorney Matt Murdock (played by Charlie Cox), who was blinded as a child, as he fights injustice by day using the law.
394
UNC claims it is protected by state law.
In fact, in response to a lawsuit filed by the family of a player who died in 2011, the NCAA wrote: "The NCAA denies that it has a legal duty to protect student-athletes."
395
(CNN)A second individual has been charged with attempting to carry out an "ISIS-inspired" terror plot, Australian police say.
396
Residents living close to the plant had heard the explosion and took to Weibo to post photos of the fire.
One user wrote that he heard a loud blast and felt slight tremors.
397
When scientists determined there was no way to save it, they held a briefing this month to celebrate the mission's success.
398
However, there is another camera that -- had it been deployed -- might have prevented the entire tragedy: a police body camera.
Body cameras are expensive to deploy, sure.
399
All they can do now is patrol the deserted alleys of Baqufa, making sure the wild dogs don't take over the town and hope one day their relatives will be able to return.
400
(CNN)The VII Summit of the Americas was supposed to be all about the symbolic handshake between the United States and Cuba.
401
The shape-shifting robots were sent in to assess the damage in one of the reactors that suffered a meltdown after a devastating earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.
402
What happened in North Charleston tells us the epidemic of police deadly force has not died.
May Walter Scott rest in peace.
 But this is by no means over.
403
Nonetheless, Molins said that ballistics, DNA, satellite navigation and other evidence connected him to the death of Chatelain, who Molins called the region's first victim of terrorism since January.
404
Stay tuned -- literally.
"Those YouTube videos on his channel will be a key part of the race --the liberals love them."
Ditto for Rick Santorum.
405
8:40:12 a.m.
Police request a "wagon" to transport him.
8:59:52 a.m.
Before the wagon leaves, there is "some communication" with Gray, according to Rodriguez.
406
"Tornadoes can be more deadly when people are sleeping and not paying attention to the warnings," he said.
Alabama, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Georgia reported large hail.
407
"This would be the first meeting between a U.S. and a Cuban leader in decades," said Pace.
And she says the scrutiny of that practice might grow because of the Menendez allegations.
"I was talking to some campaign finance watchdogs this week and they say if the (Federal Election Commission) really starts to look into this, they're actually going to find some impropriety with other lawmakers much farther than Menendez," said Kucinich.
408
His research has resulted in three CNN documentaries, culminating with "Weed 3: The Marijuana Revolution," airing at 9 p.m. ET/PT Sunday.
409
The building is not secure, but Tamang doesn't care.
A day after the earthquake struck, they found a woman under the rubble.
Unhurt; in shock, but alive.
410
The group was trapped in the village and living in a makeshift shelter, Ambassador Peter Bodde said.
He had been buried for five days under a building that pancaked.
411
Only carry-on luggage was allowed on this Air India plane.
The stress of living in a war zone showed on the passengers' faces.
He loved living in Yemen.
412
In a statement Monday, an attorney for the Brown family said that Bobbi Kristina Brown's condition has improved but that the kind of life she will lead remains to be seen.
413
For states such as New York and Washington -- early adopters of these interventions -- syringe services programs have played a crucial role in driving down HIV transmission among injecting drug users.
414
On another stop of her tour, she dressed in a red jumpsuit, and placed tulips at the slate gray Armenian Genocide memorial complex, bringing new color to an issue and to a people who usually pay tribute to their dead relatives every year in their best funereal black.
415
The jury returned not guilty verdicts on the attempted kidnapping charges against Mendel Epstein, and on more severe kidnapping charges against the three rabbis.
416
There were 73 passengers and eight crew members -- including five cabin attendants, two pilots and a maintenance official -- aboard when the flight took off from South Korea's Incheon International Airport at 6:34 p.m. local time, Asiana said in a statement late Tuesday.
417
The summit hit a depressing low for the Obama administration when Chavez walked up to Obama and, as the cameras clicked, handed the American President a copy of the book "Open Veins of Latin America," which blames the region's woes on the U.S. and Europe.
418
Our mentors are amazing musicians that are active in the community playing and performing.
I know music has changed my life in a really dramatic way.
419
Alejandro Verges, regional director at the Ministry of Interior and Public Safety, said Thursday afternoon that officials are concerned there might be a third eruption.
420
(CNN)Giovanni Lo Porto put himself in harm's way to help, heading to Pakistan to work on a much needed reconstruction project following deadly flooding there.
421
The dead included athletes traveling for a sporting competition, an eyewitness told 2M TV, a Moroccan state-owned network.
It said a number of people were also injured.
422
"I've been trying for six months with no success," Li told CNN.
"I know people who've been trying for more than a year," he said.
423
Do you follow my topic?
In an interview with CNN affiliate WRAL, Stancil described himself as a neo-Nazi and said he hates gay people "with a passion."
424
(CNN)An American citizen was wounded by gunfire Thursday as she drove from the medical school in Karachi, Pakistan, where she works, police said.
425
Several devices can already be controlled with gestures, but UltraHaptics add an extra layer of feedback, by generating the sensation of a force field
426
Right now in the last 18 years I have been active on the continent, I have never seen so much global excitement around Africa that I've seen today.
427
(CNN)A door bearing a graffiti drawing by British artist Banksy was seized by police in Gaza on Thursday after a dispute over its sale, a Gaza police official told CNN on Thursday.
428
(CNN)The mass killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, which began 100 years ago Friday, is said by some scholars and others to have been the first genocide of the 20th century, even though the word "genocide" did not exist at the time.
429
(CNN)A nuclear submarine being repaired at a Russian shipyard has caught on fire, according to a law enforcement source speaking to Russia's state-run news agency ITAR-Tass.
430
Seven were for curfew violations, he said.
He said Kent was just trying to help with getting people to go home when he was arrested.
431
While the blondes had fun with it, Drake appeared less than enthused after Madonna's prolonged smooch onstage at the Coachella music festival in California on Sunday.
432
Still, that doesn't mean Maysak won't pack a wallop.
Isabela Gov. Faustino Dry III warned Saturday that residents should act as if this will be "no ordinary typhoon."
433
Amid questions about his age -- 73 -- training and friendship with Glanz, Bates has said the shooting was accidental, and has apologized to the family.
434
The visit was highly anticipated because it would have marked Kim's first official foreign trip since inheriting the leadership of North Korea in late 2011.
435
She wrote that while she didn't directly make her objections clear verbally, her body language "screamed 'I don't like that.'"
"There are no exceptions."
436
He is believed to be the first U.S. citizen killed in the current violence in Yemen.
He fled to Saudi Arabia last month as the rebels and their military allies advanced on Aden.
437
With the virtual certainty of more spills, we need a lot more information on the consequences of these disasters and how we can combat them effectively and efficiently.
438
(CNN)Deion Sanders is such a dad.
Sanders followed it up with another tweet that included the hashtags #versacesheets #Huxtable and #Trustfund.
439
Kano, Nigeria (CNN)Hundreds of decomposed corpses were discovered buried in shallow graves in the streets of the northeastern Nigerian town of Damasak this past weekend, according to local officials and a resident.
440
A 2012 Small Arms Survey says gender-based violence is at epidemic levels in Guatemala and the country ranks third in the killings of women worldwide.
441
, Bernama said.
Jamaluddin Jarjis was "a person of high caliber, who had sacrificed much for the government, party and country," he said.
442
"The second allegation is that on 18 March 2015, the defendant incited another person to behead someone in Australia."
443
Lubitz, 27, passed his annual pilot recertification medical examination in summer 2014, a German aviation source told CNN.
She said the agency considers the report mere "voyeurism."
444
Blue tarps were visible from the sky for people to hide under -- signs that there was something wrong.
People are beside themselves in shock.
445
Demonstrations are planned for Thursday in Cincinnati, CNN affiliate WXIX said.
She said the violence that marred Baltimore this week is not reflective of the city.
446
So far over 100 owners have complied with the police order and more are lining up outside police stations across the city to get their livestock photographed.
The ruling came in the wake of a recent case of cow slaughter in Malegaon, where two men have been charged for killing the animal and selling its meat.
447
Questions have also been raised as to why the police are resorting to aggression.
"What they could do is start by having video surveillance in sensitive areas and have swifter justice."
448
The company said Mozambican employees voiced concern about reported violence against their nationals and protested the presence of South African employees in Mozambique.
449
In early April, officials measured the snowpack in California at a time when it should be the highest.
 That has led to the lower snowpack and helped compound the drought.
450
When the icy avalanche thundered down, Reiter was shoved behind an ice block by his Sherpa guide.
It was hard to remember that people die in the mountains but that it's more rare than not.
451
By cathartically writing "American Pie," McLean has guaranteed that the memory of those great musicians lives forever.
Don McLean: Buddy Holly, rest in peace .
452
Heavily armed police have scrambled to stop clashes this week after local residents accused immigrants from other African nations of taking their jobs.
453
Human Rights Watch said in a statement that the new security order would allow Prayuth "to issue orders without administrative, legislative, or judicial oversight or accountability."
454
She was also there on the 1965 night George Harrison, Patti Boyd and Lennon were dosed with LSD -- an experience she disliked -- and traveled to India with the band in early 1968.
455
The epidemic of myopia amongst East Asians has triggered cultural questions about why so many young people develop vision problems.
456
The Dharahara tower, the landmark nine-story structure, was packed with people when it collapsed.
Two bodies were found near the spot where the man was rescued, Nybo said.
457
(CNN)It's easy to be anxious about the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
The group's leaders declare that it is.
458
Iraqi security forces regained full control of the Baiji refinery, the Combined Joint Task Force said.
Iraq is working to fortify the facility's defenses, the task force said in a statement.
459
The man, Rishi Khanal, was saved after a French search and rescue team found him under the rubble on the outskirts of Kathmandu, the capital, around noon Tuesday, said Pushparam K.C., a spokesman for the Armed Police Force of Nepal.
460
Scandinavians are just about there.
While many couples marry after having the first or second child, it's clear marriage in parts of Scandinavia is dying."
461
While she's certainly not the first rich person to run for president, her wealth -- and the related perception of being out of touch with ordinary Americans -- is an obstacle in her candidacy.
462
Sources said three people, all students, were found alive.
In November, militants stopped a bus near the border and killed 28 people they believed to be non-Muslims.
463
Inside information is one way of identifying a criminal opportunity, using people who are able to provide that crucial detail or who will participate in some small way to facilitate the crime.
464
Strippers are invited to perform at funerals, often at great expense, to attract more mourners, China's official Xinhua news agency said.
465
"From sand buckets to trophies, customers can unleash their creativity by bringing in their choice of a unique, fun Slurpee cup," said Laura Gordon, 7‑Eleven's vice president of marketing and brand innovation, in a statement.
466
Thorpe said they were made out of old oil drums.
Simon Brann Thorpe's "Toy Soldiers" book is available for pre-order through Dewi Lewis Publishing.
467
In his inept speaking engagements at historically black colleges and universities, he has come across as condescending and lacking basic cultural competency.
468
After the stunning opening sequence, Gilliam's "The Crimson Permanent Assurance" -- about the revenge of some pirate-like accountants -- the film struggles to find its footing.
469
The Lamborghini's passenger, 36-year-old Gary Terry of Davenport, Florida, died at the scene, Florida Highway Patrol said.
470
Details of the plot for 2016's "Star Wars: Rogue One" were revealed during a panel at Star Wars Celebration fan festival Sunday in Anaheim, California.
471
Many more are reportedly trying to make the trip but are hampered by fuel shortages and high fees by boat operators.
472
According to the organization's latest annual report, Pregracke has made it his mission in 2015 to remove 500,000 more pounds of trash.
473
Legal advocates for inmates describe Souza as sterile and violent at once.
He's fairly new and he's doing everything he can to make sure the prison is as safe as possible."
474
During cross-examination by the defense, Jenkins testified that she suspected marijuana because the box smelled "skunky."
475
He said that ballot initiatives banning same sex-marriage were not driven by hostility but were passed by "real people who teach our children, create our jobs, and defend our shores."
476
After a century of development, half the Everglades is dead and the other half is on life support.
If we pass, we might just get to keep the planet.
477
Rather than lengthening its list of challenges, the party could resolve some and lessen concerns about its legitimacy by freeing and engaging activists like Wu and her colleagues, rather than treating them as criminals.
478
Scientists in southern Italy have known about him since 1993, when spelunkers spied his skull staring blankly back at them from its nook in the Lamalunga cave, deep under the town of Altamura.
479
SCLC referred the teenager to a mentor program in the Atlanta area, but Mosteller said that he wasn't sure if the teenager participated.
480
He said had no idea whether the thieves were still in the country.
"The Hatton Garden area has been the epicentre of London's jewellery trade since medieval times.
481
"History is full of examples where people who are not very well known nationally can be very well known once they are willing to make their case to the people of Iowa," O'Malley said.
482
A helicopter dropped deputies onto the ground, and as they approached Pusok to make the arrest, he was thrown from the horse, the sheriff's office said.
483
In December, six prisoners convicted of drug offenses were killed by firing squad, including five foreigners from Brazil, the Netherlands, Malawi, Nigeria and Vietnam.
484
(CNN)Charlotte Dujardin says she is "living the dream" as she cements her status as a dressage legend.
Dujardin and Valegro won their second consecutive Reem Acra FEI World Cup Dressage title in Las Vegas at the weekend -- a trophy to sit alongside Olympic gold and the world and European titles.
"Coming to the last I knew the time was tight.
485
"When we landed was when all the trucks and the police and the fire trucks surrounded the plane."
He passed a drug test and was discharged, Alaska Airlines said.
486
The organization also claims that the Syrian government has dropped barrel bombs on the camp in an effort to drive out armed groups.
Even delivering clean water in Yarmouk can be a deadly task.
487
Sanctions against Iran have had a dramatic impact on the nation's economy.
It's hard to imagine a truly critical question, they say, getting aired on national television there.
488
Marra wrote in the decision that the "lurid details" of alleged abuse were unnecessary to determining whether the victims could join the lawsuit.
489
For example, a senior official with Ministry of Forestry was executed for expressing dissatisfaction with the country's forestry program, the lawmaker said.
490
Ambergris Caye held the top ranking on the TripAdvisor global islands list for two years in a row before dropping out of the top 10 completely this year.
6. Madeira, Portugal .
1. Maui, Hawaii .
491
"Odin was the backbone of the family.
He was "prideful," she said.
He taught her daughter how to ride a bike.
His murder, she said, "feels like a bad dream."
492
But Mohamud is not Kenya's only homegrown terrorist.
Abdirahim Abdullahi was in his 20s and the son of a government chief.
493
Saidakhmetov purchased the tickets using a New York state ID, the travel agent said.
In August, court documents say, Juraboev was active on an Uzbek-language website that promoted ISIS.
494
Later in April, voters in Iowa will see the bulk of the GOP field tackle these issues when they take the stage at an event hosted by the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition.
495
But experts have also warned this week that North Korea may have restarted its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, with the Institute for Science and International Security arguing that snow melting patterns in images of the plant suggest new activity at the plant.
496
The first step was choosing a Bible.
They say the story is an inclusion from mythology.
It is a story told to make you realize the power of God.
497
And Thursday's new super images weren't quite done, because the questions over how Jamie Bell's rocky character The Thing in the rebooted "Fantastic Four" movie (out August 7) might look were also finally answered.
498
(CNN)Desperate migrants from Africa and the Middle East keep heading to Europe, with 978 rescued Friday in the Mediterranean Sea, the Italian Coast Guard said Saturday via Twitter.
499
In the complaint, Peter Gallagher (no, not that Peter Gallagher) claims Whedon and Goddard took the idea for "The Cabin in the Woods" from his 2006 novel "The Little White Trip: A Night In the Pines."
500
Other personnel on the Vicksburg tell us competition between different nations and even individual ships and subs is also a big motivator.
501
The Kings said in a statement, "We are aware of police reports out of Clark County, Nevada regarding Jarret Stoll.
502
Perhaps that's what Affleck meant in his Facebook post when he wrote that this information made him feel "vulnerable."
503
The current washed the stroller away.
After Keslar got out of the canal, she called for help, police said.
504
"The officer said that Walter ran from the vehicle during the traffic stop," Scott family attorney L. Chris Stewart said.
"There was not a struggle for the Taser," Anthony Scott said.
505
That is welcome news, but Japan has been less successful in achieving rapprochement with other enemies, precisely because it has not taken the measure of the shared past.
506
The Goldsboro Police Department described Stancil as "armed and dangerous."
Despite earlier reports, the victim was not killed inside the library, Albertson said.
507
The case became of high interest globally after the original prosecutor who brought the allegations was found dead in January.
508
Television network TV5Monde was gradually regaining control of its channels and social media outlets after suffering what the network's director called an "extremely powerful cyberattack."
509
ISIS released videos that showed what seemed to be an endless line of military recruits marched at gunpoint and later posted images showing cold-blooded mass killings.
510
Mosby confirmed in a statement Thursday that she had received the police's investigative report.
I do not think she will follow just public opinion."
511
Nigerian troops rescued 200 girls and 93 women Tuesday in the Sambisa Forest, the Nigerian Armed Forces announced on its official Twitter account.
512
He was eventually released as part of Saudi Arabia's program for rehabilitating jihadist terrorists, a program that U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Alabama, characterized as "a failure."
513
She believed there was a "deceptive illusion of treatment" when people chose these homeopathic options over pharmaceuticals that have been proven to work.
514
Lynch broke the news about his departure in a series of tweets, saying that the show's third season will continue without him.
515
Wei Tingting, Wang Man, Zheng Churan, Li Tingting and Wu Rongrong were freed.
Police can summon the women for questioning at any time, he added.
516
Šprajc explains that the region in which he has found such riches had gone unexplored because it's so inaccessible: "It's so hard to get there.
517
Surveillance video obtained by CNN affiliate News 12 Brooklyn appears to show Det. Ian Cyrus stashing cash in a bag before leaving the Yemen Deli and Grocery store in Brooklyn last Friday.
518
Five gunmen then entered the building, shooting people inside, Yusuf said.
In recent years, the group also launched terror attacks beyond Somalia's borders, sometimes targeting non-Muslims.
519
Brunenkant also said by phone that before Rapiejko's encounter with Valencia, the suspect had pointed the rifle at his head multiple times and threatened suicide before fleeing.
520
Prosecutors presented evidence.
Once family members know that they are with loved ones, the trauma subsides.
Obviously, there is so much more to learn.
521
The security situation may have deteriorated in recent years after Kenya's incursion into Somalia to battle Al-Shabaab there, CNN's David McKenzie said.
522
After Emanuel failed to snare half the vote in February's general election, he will go head-to-head with Garcia.
And a white protester is running for a third post.
523
(CNN)Al Qaeda has fired a verbal salvo in a multifaction battle over Yemen, saying it's offering 20 kilograms of gold to anyone who kills or captures two prominent Shia Muslim opponents, including the leader of the rebels who overtook Yemen's capital.
524
It will give legal weight to cohabiting relationships between two people of the same sex and between a man and a woman.
525
It was not clear Monday whether Ige would sign the bill, although on Friday he approved legislation banning the use of e-cigarettes in all locations where smoking is illegal.
The legislation comes after a report last month from the Institute of Medicine that said barring people under age 21 from buying cigarettes would have significant public health benefits.
526
In an institution viewed by some as archaic and out of touch, it is imperative to have a strong female presence.
READ MORE: Please don't name the royal baby Diana .
527
That number will likely grow as birds with the disease fly from one state to the next.
The CDC said it is also monitoring at least 100 people who have worked with sick birds.
528
The presiding judge for Badie, Soltan and the other defendants was Mohamed Nagy Shehata, who is known for his harsh verdicts.
529
CNN affiliate KMOV reported that it had received reports of wind damage and flooding in the town.
Aerial footage also showed damage to roofs and one street overtaken by water.
530
(CNN)The public outrage over the "religious freedom" bills recently passed in Arkansas and Indiana caught the governors of those states completely off-guard, judging by their confused and contradictory responses.
531
(CNN)"Sopranos" theorists now have a little more to chew on.
He could be anybody, but given Tony's life, he could a hitman assigned to kill Tony.
532
The jury that convicted her found the murder was especially cruel, making Arias eligible for the death penalty.
533
It was only recently that I realized my phobia of trains likely originated with that bad experience I had as a child.
I know firsthand.
534
A few months later, a judge ruled that Holmes had to be restrained during the trial, via a hidden harness anchored to the floor.
535
(CNN)The United States is failing its partners.
It goes without saying that special operations forces are not a panacea for defeating terrorism, the causes of which are complex and diverse.
536
In an email to CNN, a spokesman for Terminix wrote that the company is "committed to performing all work ... in a manner that is safe for our customers, employees, the public and the environment" and is "looking into this matter internally, and cooperating with authorities."
537
"Some people who are in prison are repentant -- but he was not one of them."
Just before he killed Dahmer, Scarver said, he confronted him with the clipping.
538
"There was no room to move here and there."
This is where members of GEA made the first of their two rescues in Nepal at 3 a.m. Sunday, pulling Bikram Chepang, 22, from the debris of 11 collapsed buildings.
539
Lazar said the interviews surprised him.
Look at Lazar's images.
Their stories should be documented for history, he said, to remind future generations "not to make the same mistakes."
540
Phi Kappa Psi would likely argue that the "small group" exception fits it perfectly: Even if the individual members were not identified by name, the defamatory story has been imputed directly to individual members, who have suffered by their association with the group.
541
As a 19-year-old telephone operator, Keefe posed for the famous painting that would become the cover of the Saturday Evening Post on May 29, 1943.
542
If Google's real objective is the "common good out there on the road," it will work with us to ensure the safety of both motorists and police officers.
543
The boat, named Airone, was intercepted some 90 kilometers (56 miles) from the Libyan port of Misrata, according to a statement from the Italian Joint Forces.
544
Of course, I haven't been alone in this work.
These factors drive down the cost of industrially sourced meat at a rate that smaller farms can't keep up with.
545
What kind of pet . should we get?"
Random House Children's Books said in February that it expects to release additional books from the found materials.
546
Charleston is suspected of involvement in 32 commercial robberies dating to November 2013, according to FBI officials.
547
Obama called Netanyahu after Thursday's announcement of the framework agreement to reassure him that Israel's security will remain a prime concern in the ensuing negotiations and the final deal, which faces a June 30 deadline.
548
DC Comics has also had prominent gay characters in recent years, like Batwoman and the original Green Lantern of Earth 2.
no press.
no leaks.
549
In extending the public health emergency declaration, the governor said: "While we've made progress in identifying and treating those affected by this heartbreaking epidemic, the public health emergency continues and so must our efforts to fight it."
550
The U.S.-Iranian relationship is not symmetrical.
Battle group naval assets to the Gulf of Aden notwithstanding, the United States is being outfoxed, not outgunned.
551
We listened to the evidence.
Hernandez is also being sued by a man who claims Hernandez shot him while they were in a limousine in Miami in February 2013.
552
"I think it's scary and really unsafe, too," Chelsie Nieto told affiliate KCPQ.
 The man had been on a four-person team loading baggage onto the flight.
553
But while reports say that during the chaotic social breakdowns of the past year, black-owned businesses were mostly protected during bouts of violence, there's little evidence to suggest a pattern in which Asian businesses have been actively targeted out of racial animus.
554
Keegan is followed by reality television star and model Kendall Jenner, Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence, Sports Illustrated swimsuit cover girl Kate Upton and British television host Caroline Flack, who dated One Direction's Harry Styles for a few months.
555
Stiller and Owen Wilson, who plays so-hot-right-now model "Hansel" made a surprise appearance at Paris Fashion Week to promote the film.
556
We all claim to hate violence, but I think we protest too much.
If we just wanted blood and pain, we wouldn't bother with the tame violence of pay-per-view fisticuffs.
557
That is in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, he said.
A grand jury declined to indict the officer in that case.
"Mr. Scott didn't deserve this.
558
(Mansur's real name was Qari Ubaidullah, a Pakistani who oversaw suicide missions against U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan).
559
The victims' family members have called on authorities to investigate the slayings as a hate crime.
Karen and Craig Hicks are in the process of divorce.
560
Mosadiq says the fight for women's rights was established a while ago.
It's essential that the government and its international partners do not allow this to happen."
561
The camera was rolling when they felt the ground shaking around 11:55 a.m., Sedai said.
They found homes destroyed, where people were pulling survivors out from piles of rubble.
562
"The competition is looking at enhancing the built environment on the island (and) making all structures more energy efficient," the island's administrator, Alex Mitcham told CNN when visiting the UK recently.
563
Using the hashtag #TidalFacts, he attempted to refute talk that the company has been doing a less than stellar job in taking on competitor Spotify.
564
The BBC reported the City of Cairo salvage operation was completed in September 2013, but the British government made the company keep it secret until this week.
565
Stuffed animals remain in one room.
The gunmen, from the Al-Shabaab terror group, first stormed a Christian prayer service, killing some students, taking others hostage.
566
Unfortunately, that means defendants have an incentive to go "off the grid".
 Plus, online service has the added benefit of tracking.
567
Egypt announced that it would dispatch several naval ships to help halt the rebels' advance.
In response to media reports, Egyptian officials said no troops have yet been sent to Yemen.
568
About 88,600 U.S. deaths were attributed to alcohol in 2010, the researchers note, and the cost of excessive drinking has been estimated at more than $220 billion per year.
569
This year, a "selfie booth" will let fans crowd in with leading riders for awkward photos on their phones -- and there will be quite some choice of riders.
570
Affleck responds that he has a house in Savannah.
Gates shows the slave schedule of the 1850 Census to Affleck, who says, "There's Benjamin Cole, owned 25 slaves."
571
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said the discovery is raising concerns about terrorism.
The government will do all that we can to prevent terrorism."
572
These are families who are dedicating $1 out of every $2 they earn just to keep a roof over their head.
In addition to preservation, HUD is also working to create new affordable housing.
573
Both of the TSA officers investigated have been fired, TSA special agent Charles Stone told police.
The TSA called the incident deplorable.
574
The prison head admitted to CNN there is no system in place to send these people home, jail them or let them go.
Bodies wash up on Libyan beaches.
575
Elsewhere in the Kathmandu Valley, the white-topped dome of the Boudhanath Stupa remains standing, but its smaller neighboring stupa has shown some damage from the quake.
576
The chances of at least some North Koreans having watched the film that North Korea sees as "an act of terrorism" is certainly possible.
577
On Tuesday, violent protests took place in Ferguson, Missouri, where three people were shot, the city police reported.
About 50 people marched, KABC said.
578
On Tuesday the country's Defense Minister said South Africa would deploy troops to areas where police spread too thin in order to halt the attacks.
579
At an emotional event in Anaheim, California, director J.J. Abrams and the "Star Wars: Episode VII -- The Force Awakens" cast showed off for the audience and then capped the presentation with the trailer for the new film.
580
(CNN)Lady Antebellum singer Hillary Scott's tour bus caught fire on a Texas freeway Thursday morning, but everyone on board was safely evacuated.
581
"Immediately following the incident in December 2014, TSA increased the random and unpredictable screening of aviation workers at various airport access points to mitigate potential security vulnerabilities," Johnson said in a statement.
582
Five people were initially reported missing, but one of them has since been rescued, the Coast Guard said.
Coast Guard Sector Mobile received a report at approximately 4:30 p.m. that a sailing regatta in Mobile Bay had been struck by severe weather, causing several vessels to capsize and leaving a number of people in the water.
The Coast Guard and other agencies were on the scene Saturday night, Vega said.
583
Schuller's life followed an almost Shakespearean arc.
Crystal Cathedral Ministries filed for bankruptcy in 2010, citing debts of more than $43 million, according to The Associated Press.
584
Rescuers, most of them volunteers from the town of Le Borgne and surrounding communities, were dispatched to the scene  and rescued at least 12 people, Celestin said.
585
Two of them are in serious condition, the company said.
Authorities evacuated about 300 people from the Abkatun Permanente platform after the fire started, Pemex said.
586
This year, Israel's Memorial Day commemoration is for bereaved family members such as Braham.
Like Valerie Braham, Uzan's parents attended the memorial service in Jerusalem.
587
There is no disputing that we are held to a higher standard, that is why this incident is so newsworthy."
You're not important enough.
588
NOAA said no signs of radioactive contamination were noted during the survey of the sunken carrier last month.
589
The show aired from 1970-74.
Redheaded Crough was raised in Los Angeles, the youngest of eight children, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
590
"I had a small moment of awe."
"It's been surreal I feel like we're breaking the Internet but in a really great way," she told CNN affiliate WPIX.
591
Carol Tobias, the president of National Right to Life, said in a statement that the Kansas law was the first of what her organization hopes "will be many state laws."
592
Thousands of families could lose out on welfare payments, with the Australian government estimating more than 39,000 children under the age of seven have not been vaccinated because of their parents' objections.
593
(CNN)More than 300 suspects have been arrested in South Africa in connection with deadly attacks on foreigners that have forced thousands to flee, the government said Sunday.
594
In February, Mullah Abdul Rauf, a former Taliban commander who had become a recruiter for ISIS in Afghanistan, was killed in a drone strike, according to officials who spoke to CNN.
595
He stressed that Nigeria's security needs to be the next government's focus.
"Many Nigerians will not forget (Buhari) was a military leader during a dictatorship," Johnson said.
596
In Chhauni, an ice cream seller ran double-time with his cart, while his radio relayed the latest.
A blood donation camp was said to be buried by the same structure that sheltered it.
597
Hong Kong's leaders argue its latest proposal fulfills the long-awaited promise of universal suffrage by giving each resident the right to cast a vote.
598
As a public figure, I shall learn the lesson from this incident, adhering to strict self-discipline," he posted on Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media platform.
599
"When I realized how this could be perceived I immediately called big frank to apologize and let him know I didn't mean any disrespect."
600
On Tuesday, the officer was arrested on murder charges.
North Charleston's police force is about 80% white, with a population of 47% black and 37% white in the city.
601
What has been hashed out so far is no guarantee that the deal will become final, he said, and according to the Islamic Republic News Agency, the leader said he can't support or oppose the deal, especially when it's possible "the other disloyal party intends to limit our country."
602
She said that right now, there is just no way to tell if it will have an impact.
And according to BP's Morrell, the oil and residue that remains is no longer harmful.
603
Many bombing survivors were in the crowd for Wednesday's events, the newspaper said.
This year, runners will take on the 26.2 mile challenge April 20.
604
Batts said recently that a medical examiner had some initial findings, but needed to get back the results of toxicology reports, which could take weeks.
605
After the suspicious packages were examined, the lockdown was lifted about 3:50 p.m. ET and pedestrian traffic was allowed.
606
Using the #FreedomDay hashtag, people across the country and beyond took to Twitter to celebrate this year's event, express their views and send out their wishes -- including the South African government.
607
Since 2004, Italy and Libya have been directly connected by the Greenstream natural gas pipeline, which runs below the Mediterranean, on the same axis as many migrant boats.
608
It was a crucial breakthrough, because it recognized that mass killing is not a personal act of evil but an exterminatory process.
609
"People are ready for a woman president.
Udall lost that race and picked up the nickname "Mark Uterus" along the way for his incessant focus on women's issues.
610
Authorities say Bates thought he pulled out his Taser but "inadvertently" fired his gun.
It's a controversial argument that drew sharp criticism online as soon as police started making it.
611
The fourth season was streamed exclusively on Netflix in 2013, after Fox canceled the show several years before.
612
We haven't learned much new, although harrowing details about the deaths of the Tsarnaev brothers' four victims have come out.
The only issue to be decided is whether Tsarnaev should be executed.
613
University officials said the department head will take over teaching the strategic management class.
University officials have not yet responded to CNN's request for comment.
614
(CNN)The FBI is investigating a possible ISIS-inspired terrorist threat in the United States, law enforcement officials said Saturday.
It's not clear whether the threat is real or aspirational.
615
On the other side, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian said that officials in his country and Saudi Arabia can help bring about a "political solution" in Yemen, according to Iran's state-run Press TV, citing AFP.
616
And based on the fragments he was allowed to examine by microscope, de Fleury concluded the true cross was made of pine wood.
617
Within hours of the quake, India had sent almost 300 personnel, along with search dogs and supplies.
Pakistan is sending meals, water, medicine and other supplies.
618
A full deal ultimately represents a referendum on the Rouhani administration's foreign policy.
The good news is that people are more than happy to welcome the preliminary agreement.
619
Without money I could not have gotten you an education."
 After her interview on CBC television, the governor of Luxor province offered Dahou a kiosk and a cash advance.
620
Pakistan's Foreign Office responded Friday by saying, "It would not be proper to cast aspersions on Pakistan's commitment to countering terrorism at a time when Pakistan has entered a critical stage of defeating the menace of terrorism."
621
She asked Dalton to come visit her in Flemingsburg, Kentucky.
The month after Dalton's surgery, UPMC discharged Katie -- she says they told her it would be psychologically good for her to get out for a while.
622
That beat the old record of 581 kilometers per hour (361 miles per hour), which was set in 2003 during another Japanese maglev test.
623
Liz Smith at 92 .
The 30 most popular film producers in Hollywood .
The Canadian variety show was best known for songs like "Skinnamarink" and "Peanut Butter."
624
He said in the past year, cotton prices had halved.
The government is expected to reintroduce the new land bill when parliament reopens this week.
625
Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed told CNN the response was sufficient and denied reports that it was the elite rapid response team alone that brought an end to the situation.
626
CERN says the energies achievable by the LHC have only ever been found in nature.
Scientists and physics enthusiasts will be waiting with bated breath as the LHC ventures into the great unknown.
627
It also surprised U.S. commanders because in recent months Iranian forces have conducted exercises and operations in the region in a professional manner, one U.S. military official told CNN.
628
Wearing shades and a black hoodie, Schuyler beat four other teams on Sunday, including pairs of football players and pro wrestlers and two married competitive eaters.
629
There's been no trial.
According to police, officers encountered Gray on April 12 and he "fled unprovoked."
"It's complex," Davis said of the probe.
630
(CNN)It's a girls' universe.
On Wednesday, DC Entertainment, Warner Bros. and Mattel announced a partnership to launch DC Super Hero Girls, featuring familiar superheroes and supervillains as "relatable teens," according to a press release.
631
Hurwitz says the creation of the physical artwork is "just the beginning of its lifecycle."
For Hurwitz, this mystery gets right to the heart of nano-scale's appeal: .
632
But that changed dramatically over the years as people with cancer, their family members and caregivers came together to educate and change public opinion about the disease.
633
Seventeen of the 30 counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty.
After the verdict, CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said Clarke now faces an uphill battle.
634
, said Goa police superintendent Kartik Kashyap.
After the incident, authorities sealed off the store and summoned six top officials from FabIndia, he said.
635
A recent report by the Human Rights Campaign found that transgender people in the United States are more likely to face discrimination from employers and the effects of unemployment and poverty.
636
But the officers are still facing a wrongful death lawsuit from Harrison's family.
The release of video from one of the officer's body cameras put the shooting back in the headlines last month.
637
In August last year, dozens of management agencies representing actors and singers signed an agreement with Beijing authorities banning drug use from the entertainment industry and pledging to sack any artists who broke the law.
638
Add to that a strong current -- and stomach-churning seas -- and it felt like we would spend an eternity on board.
Would the camps have TVs, they asked.
639
In Italy, both Mare Nostrum and Operation Triton were stemming an inevitable tide given the political instability in North Africa.
640
Mohamud traveled to Syria in April 2014 "for the purpose of training and fighting with terrorists," prosecutors said in a news release.
641
In Tuesday's recreation, he dances in tandem with host James Corden, who tweeted that he'd "fulfilled a childhood dream" by re-creating the scene with Cryer -- who turned 50 on Thursday.
642
"But in terms of the overall direction of Cuba policy, I think there is a strong majority both in the United States and in Cuba that says our ability to engage, to open up commerce and travel and people to people exchanges is ultimately going to be good for Cuban people."
643
Iranian officials have denied that Ghavami was arrested for attending the volleyball game, saying she was taken into custody for "anti-Iran activities."
644
For the latter he won an Oscar for best original song, which he shared with John Legend.
He is due to shoot Relativity's "Hunter Killer" with Gerard Butler in July.
645
After Raju's shock disclosures six years ago, the Indian government fired Satyam's board.
His company made giant strides as the outsourcing business grew in India in the 1990s.
646
The Ottoman Army had a "camelry," using camels for transportation and to ride, they said.
The Austrians' unfamiliarity with such a beast may have led to the skeleton's preservation.
647
Swift also urged her fans to make sure their parents get screened for cancer and other potential health problems.
I hope and pray that you never get news like this."
648
Still, on Monday, she was on a plane to head east.
Even though she was stuck in Hawaii, Sedway made clear on Facebook that this was a real "disruption."
649
The combination of the two is terrible.
There are also simple things you can start doing right now to ward off these diseases.
Avoid cigarette smoke .
650
We'll find out over the next year and a half whether it will work.
But from a marketing perspective, her launch may have been much more successful than critics think.
651
And to the people who asked what went wrong, his social worker had the answer.
For a year, he went through four more foster homes and wouldn't speak about what happened in Ohio.
652
"It's sort of a role reversal, and we turn the house over to her," Stamos told Kimmel.
The show will be available next year, Netflix said.
653
But with the Petrobras scandal growing and the economy sinking, the protests have gotten bigger and broader, with many demonstrators saying they initially voted for Rousseff.
654
Videos available online show a vibrant performer with a thick shock of dark hair as he accompanies himself on guitar and croons in a clear tenor.
Kayahan was best known for his love songs.
655
Last year at least 3,200 died making the journey.
The small group of migrants in Augusta has been taken in by the Italian authorities.
656
But the unfortunate reality is that the United States leads the world in incarceration, not education.
At the same time, we are losing the increasingly important race to educate our citizens.
657
One Senate Democrat said Netanyahu needs to "contain himself."
He said it also allows for the "almost instantaneous recognition of any attempt to evade the deal."
658
"Everything is ruined there, and I'm sure that the hospital doesn't function normally because of the casualties and the injuries."
659
Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid denied his group was responsible for the attack.
The suicide attack hit the group around 10 a.m. local time, police said.
660
Before news of the second execution emerged on Thursday,  the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a press briefing to denounce the Saudi action.
661
The shootings were connected, authorities said.
The police chief said the suspect then fled the scene.
Dana Ford wrote from Atlanta.
662
The state should also speed up the process of putting up for auction hundreds of artistic sites and historical buildings to privates and international investors who get to run them for 50 years.
663
Ultimately, the ocean bridges continents, connects cultures and offers equal opportunity inspiration and we should therefore work together in support of this vital shared resource.
664
What Iranians think of the deal .
On the Iranian side, Foreign Minister Javad Zarif has acknowledged that "mutual mistrust" has long plagued talks.
665
She is not allowed Internet access in prison, according to The Guardian.
Last year, a Kansas judge granted her request to be formally known as Chelsea Elizabeth Manning.
666
"The Dark Knight Returns," published in 1986, is widely credited for resurrecting Batman in pop culture, something we've seen referenced in everything from 1989's "Batman" to the "Dark Knight" trilogy and the upcoming "Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice."
667
(CNN)Hip-hop star Nelly has been arrested on drug charges in Tennessee after a state trooper pulled over the private bus in which he was traveling, authorities said.
668
Among the documents recovered from Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad after bin Laden's death was a 2011 letter from Gadahn making recommendations for al Qaeda's media strategy.
669
(CNN)One Israeli citizen was killed and another injured in what police are calling a suspected terror attack Wednesday night near Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
670
Along with their parents, the girls relocated to Canada as refugees where during their teens they discovered a passion for music.
CNN:
CNN:
671
Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN's chief medical correspondent, said many parts of the world banned the chemical, a neurotoxin.
672
It's one item on a menu of fair-chance hiring reforms intended to ensure that job applicants are evaluated on their skills and qualifications first, rather than judged solely on past mistakes.
673
Hundreds of graduates of the now-defunct Corinthian joined a "debt strike," publicly declaring their refusal to pay back their loans.
674
Going online has become the path of least resistance if you want to make yourself heard.
But jailing critics is not usually the government's first choice in Singapore.
675
But company spokeswoman Kelly Op De Weegh told Agence France-Presse that the boarding was illegal and jeopardized the safety of the activists and the crew.
676
And while that may be true, fans were feeling a little jilted.
No thanks, some fans said.
Dobrev seemed to anticipate the pain, urging fans to hold on through the show's finale next month.
677
But on April 14, it is believed that the flames quickly grew out of control because of strong winds and spread throughout the region, according to CNN affiliate KOMO-TV.
678
Last month, a Russian official speaking on condition of anonymity told CNN that the invitation was accepted.
679
The village itself was a massive prison, its entrances guarded by ISIS fighters.
It's the moment when the ISIS fighters began taking away the girls and young women.
680
But this is only the most recent in a deadly urban war that is slowly grinding down Yarmouk's buildings and people.
"Whatever happens, if they keep hitting us with barrel bombs we will die."
681
So the duration of the Communication Age on a planet could be short.
New missions plan to look at Europa and Ganymede, moons of Jupiter that have liquid water below their icy surfaces.
682
An ESPN reporter went on a regrettable rant.
And we all taxed our brains trying to deduce the date of Cheryl's damn birthday.
Duckie dances!
683
"I said, 'Listen, I can help you make this fight happen,'" Salvador said in an interview with CNN.
When asked to comment, Pacquiao's team downplayed Salvador's role.
684
A Middlesex County judge then revoked bail for Colina in another case he's involved in, for alleged assault and battery.
685
Ramos shouts outside a terminal at the Los Angeles airport on the night of July 19, 2013.
West avoided criminal charges by reaching a civil settlement with the man.
686
"I pass here five, six times a day because I live two blocks from here and when I looked I couldn't  believe it, to see that it was tipped over."
687
It introduces enough restrictions that it could give the President the political cover he wants, but it does not do enough to make the world safe from nuclear proliferation and more potentially catastrophic instability in the Middle East.
688
Among the dead were two boys, 9 and 11, a doctor, a used car salesman, a truck driver, a businessman, an Iraqi soldier, a gardener, a taxi driver and an aspiring doctor taking his mother to an appointment, according to prosecutors.
689
In 2011, the Las Vegas Review-Journal published an extensive investigation of police killings in and around Las Vegas and found 378 shootings over a 20-year period, 142 of which were fatal.
690
As scholars like to say, the Vatican has walked the line between spiritual and worldly concerns for centuries.
"He's telling people: There's nothing new here."
691
Turkey's former ambassador to the Vatican, Kenan Gursoy, told CNN in a telephone interview that while it is the first time Turkey has summoned its ambassador home from the Vatican, "This does not mean that our diplomatic ties with the Vatican are over."
692
More than 10,000 people have died in a West African epidemic of Ebola that dates to December 2013, according to the World Health Organization.
693
(CNN)Eleven channels associated with the French-language global television network TV5Monde went black late Wednesday due to an "extremely powerful cyberattack," the network's director said.
694
"We were so in love and happy together," she told a federal jury Wednesday.
She told them she was in a terrorist attack.
"She was very strong," he said.
695
"Funk" also leads Streaming Songs (16.2 million U.S. streams, down 15 percent) for an 11th week.
The sultry track also takes over at No. 1 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.
696
More than 10,000 people have arrived from Libya since last weekend alone, according to the Italian Coast Guard.
Hard as that may be to believe, it is a better life."
697
John Helinski was homeless and nameless for three years.
Then, Helinski remembered that he used to have an account with a certain Landmark Bank.
698
Organizers say this year, public interest is especially strong.
Last year saw NSA whistleblower, Edward Snowden, granted asylum in Russia, address Putin by videolink.
699
In his remarks at an anti-vaccination movie screening, he decided to compare "vaccine-induced" autism to the Holocaust.
Autism is not a death sentence.
700
A lawsuit filed this week alleges Johns Hopkins University and the Rockefeller Foundation helped conduct a similar study in Guatemala from 1945 to 1956.
701
Kagoshima District Court found no "irrationalities" in new safety standards set out by the government in the wake of the 2011 Fukushima meltdowns, Japanese news agency Kyodo reported.
702
Amid all the pressure of playing professional golf, Spieth's 14-year-old sister provides him with perspective.
She's the funniest part of our family," he said.
703
The Orioles said tickets from Monday's postponed game can be used for admittance on May 28.
According to MLB.com, games have been postponed in the past because of security concerns.
704
As a result, for much of the U.S. audience, Abe's words about the TPP will be of equal importance to questions of history.
705
But the project has been handed between rotations of U.S. officers and is perhaps a little distant from its first conception.
706
Rhodes said the White House had "expressed serious concerns" about the violence and would continue to speak in support of human rights reforms on the island.
707
"I've watched them vote," Warren said.
Many of them want her to get into the race and become a viable challenger to Democratic frontrunner Hilary Clinton.
708
A police representative said Richards was asked to leave but refused and then entered a restroom and wouldn't come out.
She has been released from custody.
709
New prisons were built, Thomas said.
Hickman, Thomas and other clergy members on Monday night met with gang members in an attempt to stem the street violence.
710
On Thursday, Iranian state television broadcast Obama's speech live, something many Iranians described as unprecedented.
"International unity will collapse."
711
Gray was carrying a "pocket knife of legal size," attorney William Murphy told CNN.
Police never saw the knife and chased Gray only after he ran from them, the attorney said.
712
Kim is part of an NGO called the "Korean Council for the Women Drafted for Military Sexual Slavery by Japan," which is fighting for an apology.
713
But not all have taken this offer, according to a different speaker.
ISIS released a five-minute video in February showing the mass murder of Coptic Christians from Egypt.
714
But a major chase through the city involving a runaway subway train falls flat due to basic conceptual silliness and poor action continuity.
715
Thompson, who had two sons with Jenner during their five-year marriage, was one of many relatives to cheer Jenner for publicly sharing what she had known for decades.
716
After director James Wan, writer Chris Morgan and Universal pored over existing footage and tweaked the script, production resumed in April 2014.
717
Park heard about the resignation and called it "regrettable," according to the South Korean presidential office.
718
Their love affair was doomed like two ships passing in the night, but it was so good while it lasted for Jack and Rose in the 1997 blockbuster movie "Titanic."
719
More than 40 Iraqi soldiers died in that explosion.
Calling for "patience," an administration official said that winning Mosul is a complex endeavor.
720
Twelve people were arrested, Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said.
We are deploying resources to keep everyone safe," the Baltimore Police Department tweeted.
721
The hope is that most of the battleship's sailors and Marines can be identified.
After the war, Emory worked in Washington state before moving to Hawaii about 30 years ago.
722
But it's after Guru-Murthy asks Downey whether he thinks he is "free from all of that," referring to Downey's history of "taking drugs, drinking" that the building tension comes to a head.
723
I don't see Graham as an abusive mother spreading the gospel, or at least the inevitability, of violence.
She went there so that she could help him keep his promise.
724
"We strongly support the efforts of these activists to make progress on these challenging issues, and we believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them."
725
After arriving in Arizona for Super Bowl XLIX, Patriots owner Robert Kraft said he expects the NFL to apologize if the investigation does not uncover any wrongdoing.
726
She has spoken with CNN about the Nigerian abductions previously.
Nigerian forces are re-gaining territory and protecting more schools.
727
In November, French customs officials seized nearly 250 kilograms (550 pounds) of cocaine on a vessel that was also off the coast of Martinique, according to authorities.
728
Their sister, Madylin, played their TV sister Ally Barone.
According to his IMDb profile, Sawyer did not appear to take on acting roles after "Raymond" was discontinued.
729
At the bottom of the list was JetBlue, which offered the lowest percentage of award seats and the fewest number of award tickets of the five biggest U.S. airlines: 892,000 one-way passenger tickets, or 4.5% of its total 19.7 million U.S. seats.
730
By Thursday afternoon, storms will hit parts of Indiana and Kentucky.
Earlier this week, severe weather struck the South.
731
During her court appeal, Lawrence apologized to Indonesia for her actions.
We understand that the legal team for Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran is considering other legal options."
732
The assailant's conviction and sentences follow a trial that included testimony from both sides, according to Pakistani antiterrorism judge Mohammad Amin Kundi.
733
In a joint statement last week, Sefolosha and Antic said they will contest the charges.
According to the Pacers, Copeland underwent surgery on his abdomen and left elbow for stab wounds.
734
And it came the night after Schumer appeared on CBS' "The Late Show" and turned David Letterman red-faced when she lifted her dress to show him a scar she got from surfing and said, "That's my vagina."
735
Of the 131 cases, the state was able to obtain the vaccination status for 81 patients.
The outbreak began with dozens of visitors to two Disney theme parks in the state.
736
The advent of cell phone cameras and social media has for the first time allowed average citizens to document police brutality routinely and to disseminate these images nationally.
737
When Farekh, another man named Ferid Imam and a third co-conspirator left Canada for Pakistan in 2007, they did not inform their families of their plans, court documents said.
738
Opening his speech, Kennedy stated simply the effect of man's scientific pursuit:  "The greater our knowledge increases, the greater our ignorance unfolds."
739
Swangard's own illness was discovered in early 2013 during a long overdue check-up.
Since his diagnosis, Swangard said he has had a greater understanding of his patients' struggles.
740
The area has since been home to skateboarders, bikers, modern dancers, cafes, the national football team for homeless people and a climbing forest.
741
(CNN)How will the new "Fantastic Four" differ from the original movie of a decade ago?
Here's the new trailer for the movie, out June 12: .
742
The Weinstein Co. nearing deal to keep 'Grace of Monaco' Weinstein didn't attend the movie's premiere either -- explaining that he had been visiting Syrian refugee camps in Jordan as part of a long-scheduled U.N.-sponsored trip.
743
A CNN story about Kekula in September prompted donations from around the world to IAM, an organization that raises money to help African natives pay for education.
744
But in an incident like the Germanwings tragedy, where a pilot is being blamed for the crash, Schiavo says there must be additional safeguards and that this technology would be a start.
745
The State Department thanked the response by the Kurdish government and will investigate the bombing together with them.
746
Neighboring Setagaya ward has indicated that it would look into following Shibuya's lead.
"To realize equal rights for gay couples, a national law has to be made," he said.
747
Mesick has been raising buffalo for their meat since 1973, he said, with no escape like this before.
The last buffalo were shot 20 miles from the farm, he said.
748
According to the International Organization for Migration, Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants arriving in the first three months of 2015, and about 2,000 were rescued at sea during the first weekend of April in the Channel of Sicily.
749
Moreover, the drop in oil prices also eases the cost of transporting food from California to the other 49 states, she said.
The reality is there's a major drought throughout the West and Southwest.
750
It has inspired the 12-year Baltimore resident and business owner to start peacefully protesting as well.
The scene was beautiful, Duda said.
751
It also notes that the government should not be in the business of giving out or withholding benefits on the basis of the content of the recipient's speech.
752
Scott County, the epicenter of the outbreak, has only one doctor who deals with infectious disease, but the doctor is not an HIV specialist, the State Department of Health said.
753
Each week, about 23% of American adults -- or 52 million people -- use a medicine containing acetaminophen, according to the nonprofit Consumer Healthcare Products Association.
754
On Wednesday, E. Royster Harper, University of Michigan's vice president for student life, said in a statement that "It was a mistake to cancel the showing of the movie 'American Sniper' on campus as part of a social event for students" and that the show will go on.
755
The publication first recounts attacks on Abu Ghraib at the height of the American intervention by al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI)  -- ISIS' predecessor -- to free imprisoned "Sunnis" who had been detained by the Americans.
756
(CNN)Justice may be blind, but it's easy to see that Marvel's "Daredevil" is already a hit with fans.
So what do critics think?
Time will tell.
757
Of the eight inmates currently on death row in Utah, three opted for the new choice of death by firing squad.
Pentobarbital is the preferred drug used for lethal injection.
758
"We are very appreciative of Burger King and can't thank them enough for their generosity!" said King.
The motivational speaker wasn't too far off -- a merger was in the works.
759
Flade, a journalist at Die Welt and terrorism researcher who first broke the story of the police raids, told CNN that a German couple of Turkish descent -- Halil and Senay D. -- were under arrest.
760
Fetty with an electric guitar is something that needs to happen again.
Was the punchline for their whole shtick really just Efron grabbing Franco's balls?
761
The Palestine Liberation Organization called on international bodies to assist in the evacuation of people from the camp.
762
" 'My endorsements are gone,' " Hernandez said, according to McCauley said.
The jury has not heard about the double shooting.
763
As he tries to walk away, she follows him, screaming, "Get the f--- over here!"
WMAR reports that the woman saw her son on television throwing rocks at police.
764
And on Wednesday, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu obliquely suggested that the United States could be threatened as well.
765
The 25-year-old died in police custody 15 days ago after he was arrested on a weapons charge.
Cummings said that Gray joined the church in 2001.
766
The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department has reported that a section of a fiberglass boat 20 or 30 feet long was spotted off the state's coast this week and has been towed into harbor.
767
McClellan referred to the scathing report by the U.S. Department of Justice that found Ferguson issued fines and traffic tickets to generate revenue for the city.
768
Obama has argued with the progressive potentate Elizabeth Warren, calling her "wrong" on trade policy.
 That's not the behavior of a fierce populist.
769
In that earlier attack, a first lieutenant, a sergeant and four conscripts were killed when their armored vehicle was attacked on the highway from Al-Arish to Sheikh Zuweid in northern Sinai, the military said.
770
(CNN)Tuesday is Equal Pay Day, the fictitious holiday marked by progressive women's groups as the point in the year women would have to work to make up for "lost" wages as a result of the so-called wage gap.
771
Police said the militants kidnapped 276 girls in all.
Amnesty International says women and children continue to be abducted.
 Their families are still bereft.
772
Still, passing through villages it's clear that damage has been suffered.
Some are still standing, but seem precarious and the residents are too scared of aftershocks to move back inside.
773
But as a physician who is passionate about health promotion, I politely tell the girls, "No, thanks."
An occasional home-baked cookie is not going to ruin a kid's health.
774
Bates, a member of the task force, was part of a group of deputies trying to arrest Eric Courtney Harris, 44, in the parking lot of a Dollar General store.
775
Usually booster rockets burn up in Earth's atmosphere or, like NASA's space shuttle boosters, they fall back into the ocean.
Musk wants to cut costs.
776
I'm always moved by the deep symbolism of this mythic moment, when the body of Christ becomes what is called a "glorified body."  
 Good Friday embodies the Christian version of that truth.
777
When a supporting parent has fallen behind, the court clerk sends dad an order to show up in court and explain why he should not be held in contempt for violating the payment order.
778
One said the officers were forced to return fire.
Still, they were glad to see the video released for the sake of transparency.
She was not identified.
After Moynihan was wounded and West killed, police and local leaders sought to allay community concerns at a time when officer-involved shootings have led to protests throughout the nation.
779
(CNN)The underwater search area for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 looks set to double in size.
The search of the current priority zone is expected to be completed in May.
780
That President Obama is the reason why some blacks are frustrated with police and not the dynamic beautifully captured by Lawrence 75 years ago.
781
Thursday's attack should remind the world that the group is a pale shadow of the organization that once dominated much of Somalia but now is reduced to high profile attacks against undefended civilian targets.​ .
782
He tells CNN that the country will be formally founded on May 1 and is inviting, through the media, the world's heads of state to attend a formal ceremony marking the presumptive nation's birth.
783
She warns that in spite of potential, the future of luxury in Africa is dependent on reforms taking place: "It will rely on infrastructure and the operating environment such as security and how trading is done," she says.
784
Canadian warplanes have conducted dozens of strikes against ISIS targets in Iraq since November.
The Canadian aircraft and their crews safely returned to base, the military said.
785
Sonit's face was exposed during the whole ordeal, though a hooded top and shawl protected his head and body during the cold night spent under rubble.
786
NASA says lunar eclipses typically happen at least twice a year, but this eclipse is the third in a series of four in a row, known as a "tetrad."
787
(CNN)Bahamian R&B singer Johnny Kemp, best known for the 1988 party anthem "Just Got Paid," died this week in Jamaica.
People we've lost in 2015 .
788
The government is tracking the finances of people suspected of ties to Al-Shabaab, the militant group that claimed responsibility for the Thursday attack.
789
"I'm really just a person trying to overcome my own fears," explained Jiang.
5 - Ask why?
When you get rejected you have to find out why.
790
Puerto Rico Port Authority spokesman Efraín Santiago told El Nuevo Dia newspaper that the cleaning staff on the ship had discovered the deceased passengers after knocking on the cabin's door.
791
Ferrari will hope the hot track temperatures at the desert race will help them topple Mercedes again, as they did on Sepang's sizzling circuit.
792
Australians have a dim view of how Indonesia has responded.
For these reasons, the fallout between capitals will be contained.
793
Agents behaving badly overseas .
That prostitute visit was arranged for by a DEA agent stationed in Colombia, according to Horowitz's office.
794
At least 196 teachers and 314 schoolchildren were killed in 2014, and more than 300 schools were damaged or destroyed.
795
The northern white rhino cannot mate with a black rhino, but there is a chance it could mate with a southern white rhino, Paul says.
796
The plaintiffs also include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Co., American Snuff Co., Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. and Lorillard Tobacco Co.
797
There has been plenty of speculation regarding Kris Jenner's feelings about Bruce's transitioning though she tweeted her support after he made the announcement Friday during an interview with ABC's Diane Sawyer.
798
Doctors Without Borders will begin its own rescue effort, De Filippi said, because "as a medical, humanitarian organization, we simply cannot wait any longer."
799
Relief organizations say the tarmac at Tribhuvan International Airport remains jam-packed with a large number of cargo planes.
800
Since 2002, the agency has fired 513 officers for theft.
CNN contacted airports around the country and found while the total thefts from carousels are relatively low, it continues to be a problem.
801
"Command staff personnel have the responsibility of publicly leading from the front, while being accessible to the members of the general public they serve," the statement said.
802
Investigators are looking into the possibility, said Goldsboro police Sgt. Jeremy Sutton.
Sutton said investigators are looking into whether he is part of a white supremacist gang.
803
According to a comment on the Facebook page "Japanese American History: NOT for Sale," he was working on the issue while on a trip to Australia.
The items were inherited from the historian's estate.
804
(CNN)ISIS on Wednesday released more than 200 Yazidis, a minority group whose members were killed, captured and displaced when the Islamist terror organization overtook their towns in northern Iraq last summer, officials said.
805
A story about the group on Yahoo! News this week spread through the internet, reviving debate over what to do with the statue.
806
The document obtained by a certain media outlet simply gives her longtime friend Leslie Morris the authority -- in the absence of 24-hour doctor care -- to make care decisions for Joni once she leaves the hospital."
807
Rudd made several calls to his personal assistant over the following days, but he terminated the calls after realizing it was Rudd on the phone.
808
"It was a walk of survival," she said.
Dr. Carol Pineda and her husband, Michael MacDonald, of Massachusetts, were vacationing in Nepal when the quake struck.
809
The Diyanet sparked discussion a few months earlier by opening a mosque on the campus of Erzurum Ataturk University in the eastern province of Erzurum, according to Turkish daily newspaper Hurriyet.
810
Jordan ended an eight-year moratorium in December, putting 11 murder convicts to death, with the government saying it was a move to end a surge in violent crime.
811
Let me explain.
I'm also a lifelong Catholic.
My excuse always has been that Catholics have their Bible passages read to them at Mass every Sunday.
812
(CNN)It's only a few weeks since the first presidential announcement but already it feels like the campaign is in high gear.
813
This is not the Duke we're here to experience.
In the news release, the vice president for student affairs called the noose incident a "cowardly act."
814
However, a combination of existing capabilities and dynamic development of new capabilities by the private sector can serve as a foundation for eliminating any capability gap in the U.S. space program.
815
If not following all of history's clues -- Hollywood has yet to cast an actual Jew as Jesus -- then at least inching closer.
816
But the team is also working towards a hybrid petro-electric motor, which they hope to unveil in 2016.
Elsewhere, engineers are working on green vehicles for the whole family.
817
The voice of Michael Slager can be heard in both.
"I'll never know why he ran, but I know he didn't deserve to die," Fulton said.
Slager was later cleared in that incident.
818
Perhaps Dysart's most memorable character arc on the show was when he was found in bed with power-hungry competitor Rosalind Shays (played by Diana Muldaur).
819
The family intends to have a second, private autopsy conducted once Baltimore police turn over the body, the attorney said.
He let out long screams.
820
When news reached Lee that Lincoln had been murdered, in fact, he was distraught, calling it "a crime" that was "unexampled" and "deplorable."
821
So I called the smuggler the same night I was released, and said I wanted to get on the next ship out.
We were adrift at sea, they told the authorities, with no captain or crew.
822
I lost," he said.
Philippines embassy officials said Veloso would be returned to Yogyakarta prison in Central Java later on Wednesday.
823
In fact, in recent years, violence from the extreme right has again surged—and at levels reminiscent of the dark days of the 1990s.
824
Wardy said there's no doubt that companies are in business to protect their bottom line, and that will always be a motivator.
Speak up!" Wardy said.
825
One inmate was airlifted to the hospital, the sheriff said.
Firefighters put out the blaze, revealing a crater at the blast site and a blackened front loader, Mims said.
826
3. Kasich also thinks waiting is best .
NPR's Steve Inskeep says the prospect of big changes was obvious as he did some recent homework about the 2016 race.
827
That was true in Miami in 1980 after the acquittal of the police officers.
And I must say tonight that a riot is the language of the unheard."
828
When she returned home to Palm Beach, Australia, Walsh was determined to reunite the ring with its owner.
Found this gold ring snorkeling at Finns Beach in Bali today.
829
He said he also believed that people on the migrant boat rushed to one side, causing many to fall off.
Many of the victims are feared to be still trapped inside the sunken boat.
830
(CNN)Easter is a cornerstone event in the Christian faith, but it's surrounded by interesting quirks.
But ... if the full moon fell on Sunday, Easter would be pushed down a week.
831
About 1.45 million people live in  Kathmandu, the majority in poorly constructed homes not designed to withstand the kind of shaking seen on Saturday.
832
Of course, the Constitution has not changed since 2003, a point that will surely be made by such opponents of same-sex marriage as Justice Antonin Scalia.
833
(CNN)Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will get two extra weeks to form a government, Israel's President said in a news release Monday.
834
Police Capt. Rick Henke and Sgt. William Mudd resigned early last month after the emails were discovered as part of the evidence in the Justice Department's scathing Ferguson report.
835
By examining "500 anatomical traits," Tschopp said he was able to "reconstruct the family tree" of Diplodocids -- the family Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus belong to.
836
Years ago, Rock filmed a sketch for his "Chris Rock" show on HBO in which he detailed ways to avoid being beaten by police as a black man.
837
People who live in rough townships have never seen such a scene," said President Jacob Zuma about the photos in a televised news conference.
838
The musician lived in northern Georgia.
Burns was part of the genre-defining band's original lineup, which formed in Jacksonville, Florida, in 1965.
839
Following Fidel Castro's 1959 revolution, houses and apartments were redistributed throughout Cuba and the government promised that everyone would have a home in the new socialist utopia.
840
When asked why officers first encountered Gray, Baltimore Police Dept. Capt. Eric Kowalczyk told CNN that they had been working in an area known for violent crime and drug sales.
841
Early Monday night, officials were considering road closures, and one school, Lincoln Marti, was evacuated as a precaution, according to the Fire Department.
842
Later, he said that militants were rolling into the center of Ramadi.
Over the weekend, the militants seized control of areas north of Ramadi.
843
The picture was apparently uploaded on Imgur a few days ago and has caught fire thanks to a post on the website 9gag.com.
Some people are noting the apparent motion of the cat.
844
This provision will be permanent.
Many in Congress have said that the agreement should be a formal treaty requiring the Senate to "advise and consent."
845
Lewis had appeared on such 1970s TV shows as "Then Came Bronson," "Bonanza" and "The Name of the Game" before scoring a minor role as a cowhand in "The Culpepper Cattle Co." (1972).
846
The attorney who filed the suit, James Marsh, told CNN that UVA medical staff lost or destroyed evidence from the alleged sexual assault victim he's representing, making it impossible for her to move forward and get justice.
847
"Sadly, Mount Everest is now ... called the world's highest junkyard," Maj. Ranveer Singh Jamval, the team leader, told India Today.
848
"However, no police official was injured," the  Amnesty statement said.
Police said sandalwood smuggling is common in the area.
849
In his autobiography, "Threshold Resistance: The Extraordinary Career of a Luxury Retailing Pioneer," Taubman said that when he "looked over the horizon, I saw that there was money to be made by people who could build and own stores or, better yet, groups of stores."
850
In December, after a 10-hour hearing, Rezaian signed a paper to acknowledge that he understood the charges against him, the Post reported.
851
However, 1OAK's team assisted Mr. Copeland to their fullest capabilities, and called for help as soon as he was seen walking back towards the venue," the statement said.
852
He told CNN he believes the newly-elected government, which is due to take office on May 29, will step up efforts to locate the girls.
853
ESPN reported that the team will hold voluntary offseason workouts beginning Monday.
"I truly regret this incident," Peterson said after accepting the deal.
854
Twisted Sister says that its 2016 tour will be its last, according to a press release.
Snider also noted that the band will play with a new drummer, Mike Portnoy of Adrenaline Mob.
855
That doesn't mean that Norwegians will be left with radio silence; they'll merely have to tune in digitally.
On FM, Norwegians can only find five stations.
856
(CNN)People have long underestimated the athleticism necessary for golf.
Keep your hips and low back stable.
But it's up to you to add skill to the movement.
857
(CNN)"Success Kid" is likely the Internet's most famous baby.
"One can only survive with no natural kidney function ... for so long," Laney Griner said.
858
The EPA said it is working with local government agencies to investigate whether the family was made ill after a fumigation at the resort on March 18 and whether any environmental regulations or laws were violated.
859
Travolta told the Tampa Bay Times that he has not seen the documentary, "and I don't really care to."
"It wouldn't make sense, nor would it for Tom (Cruise), I imagine."
860
Mary Cunningham was the nurse on board who attended to the first sick passenger.
There were 84 passengers on board the plane, including nine crew members.
861
Washington (CNN)In a broad bipartisan vote, the Senate on Tuesday gave final approval to a Medicare reform bill that includes a permanent solution to the "doc fix," a method the government has used to ensure payments to Medicare providers will keep up with inflation.
862
Sources quoted in Brazilian media have said investigators are looking at whether some of the bribes went toward Rousseff's election campaigns.
863
But they felt that killing him off might appear exploitative.
A scene late in the movie shows him and Mia playing on a beach with their son while the crew looks on -- essentially saying goodbye.
864
Bates had weapons training once in September 2008 and twice in 2009, according to sheriff's office records that Bates obtained, Wood said.
Evaluations show supervisors had a good opinion of Bates.
865
The special will be produced by Fox 21 Television Studios, and Berman's The Jackal Group.
There is no plan yet for when the adaptation will air.
866
Prime Minister Hun Sen, Cambodia's strongman leader for decades, has long been a vocal opponent of 003 and 004, claiming that pursuing the cases could push the country towards civil war.
867
Now, MESSENGER is running out of fuel and NASA says it will hit the planet's surface at 8,750 mph (3.91 kilometers per second) around April 30.
868
He also hoped for peace in Ukraine and for healing for those who have suffered there.
Pope Francis ended the address consoling the marginalized, the poor, the sick and the suffering.
869
That was great motivation to keep up with my workouts for the next week.
It was great to have them join me for a swim workout.
870
(HBO is a Time Warner company, like CNN.)
The world of Westeros is constantly plagued by war, but is there a time when people have just had enough?
871
(CNN)WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has agreed to be interviewed by Swedish prosecutors in London, his lawyer in Sweden told CNN.
872
As to food, Jordan says he used laundry to trap and scoop up fish.
He returned home to loved ones eager to embrace him, but mindful of giving him time to process the ordeal.
873
To convince the suspects that the deed had been done, the FBI staged a fake homicide scene with the former inmate and took pictures to show them that he had been killed.
874
In 2008, the FBI launched Operation Rhino, "a serious effort to crack down on anyone traveling to Somalia to support Al-Shabaab," Bergen wrote.
875
Now that the case has been addressed, the Kansas City-St. Joseph diocese has a new leader: Kansas Archbishop Joseph Naumann.
876
"No U.S. president has ever made genocide prevention a priority, and no U.S. president has ever suffered politically for his indifference to its occurrence.
877
It's Fireball Cinnamon Whisky, and lately it's been as hot as its name.
In other words, Pomes traveled the country serving up Fireball shots in bars.
878
Willis played a major role in creating some of the most memorable neon work in the city.
Willis visited the Neon Museum in 2013 to celebrate her 90th birthday.
879
The goals of the EXACTO program are giving shooters accuracy at greater distances, engaging targets sooner and enhancing the safety of American  troops, DARPA said.
880
(CNN)One war was enough for Gregory Margolin.
This year, in Ukraine, he found himself again surrounded by war.
Margolin arrived in Israel on March 24.
881
"Also, the family respectfully asks that you do not vote for Hillary Clinton in 2016.
"You were a wise man, Larry Upright," said Ron Renno of Forsyth, Georgia.
882
Little things like using a fork, going out at night, tucking into bed without anyone checking on you; they're all strange for someone like Hinton who spent nearly 30 years on Alabama's death row.
883
"We strongly support the efforts of these activists to make progress on these challenging issues, and we believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them."
884
Three people in Kansas have died in the past year and 10 people in four states have fallen ill from the bacteria believed to have come from Blue Bell products, the CDC said Tuesday.
885
But Oklahoman Tara Clymer sold a 3.85-carat diamond she found at the park last year for $20,000.
The now 1.09-carat diamond is on display at the park visitor center.
886
Prosecutors offered Sloan immunity, but he still refused to testify against Knight during the preliminary hearing, the affiliates reported.
887
Dr. Dayo Adeyanju, Ondo's state commissioner for health, said 18 people have died and five people are being treated.
888
For the next two days, Cheroitich didn't budge.
Police in Garissa on Saturday paraded the bodies of men they said had carried out the attack.
889
She is Selena Dohal, 8, and her skull was fractured when a massive earthquake shook her neighborhood, two and a half hours from the Nepalese capital, to the ground on Saturday.
890
(CNN)"Star Wars" fans will get more than they bargained for when the saga comes to digital HD on Friday.
'Star Wars' films available for digital download for first time .
891
Weinstein's wife's statement on Thursday thanked some but also blasted the governments of the United States and Pakistan for not doing more to help her husband.
892
(CNN)Eight Iranian border guards have been killed in clashes with militants near the border with Pakistan, Iranian state media reported.
893
Quoting Mohammed, the narrator says that those who "perform prayer and pay alms" will have "their blood and property" protected by the Prophet unless Islam dictates otherwise.
894
The teen mother was then arrested on one count of child abuse with death in connection with her younger sister's death, according to a police statement.
895
"The conflict has had a devastating impact on children, including many who were forcibly recruited by the insurgents in Nigeria," Ahua said.
896
In 2014, the state police took over, but that was nine years after Gricar went missing and two years after he had been declared legally dead.
897
Bates said he meant to use his stun gun but ended up firing his handgun instead.
So if an officer is left-handed, the gun should be on the left side.
898
Survivor Karen Brassard said she needed to attend the trial to help her heal.
This was a community that suffered greatly after the bombing and subsequent manhunt.
899
Some credit him with coining the phrase "drop-dead gorgeous" to describe actress Michelle Pfeiffer in a review of her 1985 film, "Into the Night."
900
The airstrikes Thursday targeted rebel Houthi militant positions in three parts of Sanaa, two Yemeni Defense Ministry officials said.
901
She said tech companies like Facebook and Google are increasingly wading into the debate because they're recognizing that "nondiscrimination protections are critical to every area of their employees' lives."
902
(HLN)HLN's #MeForReal is an uplifting, revealing conversation about the way we present ourselves online.
Postscript for the haters: We think you just racked up MORE fans for P!nk.
903
Many observers also note Zhou's patronage of Bo Xilai, a former Communist leader sentenced to life in prison for corruption in 2013.
904
When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said.
The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters.
905
The federal criminal code includes over 4,500 laws and counting, not to mention government regulations for which there are criminal penalties.
906
True, the fight for congressional approval would be politically bruising and consume a huge amount of energy.
On May 27, 1988, the Senate ratified the treaty 93-5.
907
"Physically, we are not hurt.
 The group deployed a medical and assessment team to aid the Nepalese people in several remote villages outside of the city.
908
In spite of that she also said she didn't feel threatened, leading police to charge him with shoplifting and not armed robbery.
909
Sitko was finally able to get the passenger-side window down.
Thanks to Warnock, Sitko went to the hospital with just minor injuries.
910
He said he overheard a couple of zookeepers say the gorillas had been fighting with one another.
Then the gorilla -- named Kijoto -- charged toward the window and smacked into it, he said.
911
(CNN)They left Iran unwillingly, often in a hurry.
A few will return to Iran, hoping to keep their homosexuality a secret.
Rasti hopes her photos spark dialogue.
912
Gulnaz remains subdued throughout our meeting and does not once look her husband in the eye.
Though she now maintains she was not raped, she explains her decision.
913
The Tokyo space is one of five worldwide available for free to YouTube partners, who create content and share ad revenue with the website.
914
Not to mention famous, accomplished and controversial.
We like to call it authenticity, but it's probably not.
But if you're too different, you're not relatable.
915
(CNN)They come from more than 20 countries, drawn to Libya as the funnel to Europe.
Malakooti believes this is a major factor in the rising numbers trying to reach Europe.
916
Walmart's staunch criticism of a religious freedom law in its home state of Arkansas came after the company said in February it would boost pay for about 500,000 workers well above the federal minimum wage.
917
He still argues against things I passionately support, but I find myself -- like many other lapsed Catholics -- enthralled.
The comment took me aback.
918
At the time of the interview, lawyers had not informed the family about news of the attorney general's orders.
No date has been set for the execution.
919
(CNN)Their relationship led to jail time for her, but Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau wants the world to know that she and her husband, Vili Fualaau, are still happily together.
920
In a career that started in the 1960s, Sledge had a number of hits, including "Take Time to Know Her," "Warm and Tender Love" and "It Tears Me Up" among them.
921
Rick Langhart said doctors removed the NuvaRing immediately.
Hospital records cited the NuvaRing as a risk factor for Erika's multiple pulmonary embolisms.
922
They will now "review their implementation in terms of our current and ongoing practices," said an NYPD spokesperson in an email to CNN.
923
I think eating was her motivation to live, and when she lost it, she passed away."
According to Guiness World Records, the oldest person ever was Jeanne Louise Calment, who died at age 122 in 1997.
924
EPA's modeling is divorced from reality.
President Obama's EPA has shifted its position on nuclear energy and hidden that policy shift in a model.
925
And wiretaps and other intelligence revealed that the group planned to carry out terrorist attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as in Italy, according to Caligari Chief Prosecutor Mauro Mura.
926
"Now, this student can work one-on-one with that teacher during the school day."
The school is also seeing higher standardized testing scores.
927
While casualty accounts following the magnitude-7.8 quake Saturday are still difficult to confirm -- hardly surprising considering that communication lines have been severely disrupted --
928
As White was taken to a hospital, he became unresponsive, NJ.com reported.
They hit him with their batons and hold him on the ground as he begs for help.
929
(CNN)A South African university is celebrating the removal of a British colonialist's statue after weeks of protests.
Hofmeyr said the statue is a race issue.
930
A win would mean a woman in the White House, which is a vital step in the march toward women's full political inclusion.
That's a label that no female candidate should have to wear.
931
The report notes that the spike in sentencing is attributable to mass-sentencing in countries including Egypt and Nigeria, "against scores of people in some cases."
932
Earthquakes are a fact of life in the South Asian country, with tremors of magnitude 4 or 5 occurring several times each year, geologist and science journalist Kate Ravilious said.
933
The exchange wasn't the first time Japanese politicians have discussed the implications of visitors from another planet.
934
Armenian President Serzh Sargysan said earlier this year that "impunity paved a path to Holocaust and genocides in Rwanda, Cambodia and Darfur."
935
"Spice" and other similar synthetic drugs are often marketed as legal plant material coated with chemicals that are supposed to mimic the effects of marijuana, according to a statement from the governor's office.
936
(CNN)Boston native Mark Wahlberg will star in a film about the Boston Marathon bombing and the manhunt that followed, Deadline reported Wednesday.
937
The baby looked up at the senator.
Webb regularly speaks about his service and appeared more at home at the event.
This time, he put on a rosy view.
938
Indonesian President Joko Widodo told reporters Wednesday that the decision was the result of the Indonesian government's desire to cooperate with the ongoing case in the Philippines.
939
Morsy was pushed out by Egypt's military.
Journalist Sarah Sirgany reported from Cairo and CNN's Greg Botelho reported and wrote this story from Atlanta.
940
They go on to say: "We know that the government has its reasons for seeking the death penalty, but the continued pursuit of that punishment could bring years of appeals and prolong reliving the most painful day of our lives.
941
Accompanying the children were three men and two women; all nine had British passports, the Turkish official said.
942
(CNN)The people of Nepal are still trying to recover from two major earthquakes and a mudslide.
-- ActionAid USA .
-- Seva Foundation .
943
Taylor Swift singing in the audience .
Aguilera is far from country, but with a voice as malleable as hers, she can pass for a song or two.
944
Kraft testified that Hernandez proclaimed his innocence to him and told the team owner that "he hoped that the time of the murder ... came out because I believe he said he was in a club."
945
If it is approved, the agency will reportedly use its Epsilon solid-fuel rocket technology to carry and deploy a SLIM probe -- the acronym stands for "Smart Lander for Investigating Moon" -- on the surface of the celestial body.
946
"The alleged police brutality in this case cannot and will not be tolerated," Worthy said.
"My client's fingerprints will not be on that bag," Rohl told WDIV.
947
And my colleagues at Columbia recently published a study arguing that drought in Syria was one of the causes of the ongoing war there.
948
This would not be acting in the usual course of business of a common carrier, since this imaginary airline is not offering its services to the public, generally.
949
Premeau said he also got a call from a man whose initial post may have set off the social media storm, apologizing for the mistake.
950
(CNN)One hundred and forty-seven victims.
The father of suspect Abdirahim Abdullahi is a chief in Mandera and had reported his son missing, officials said.
951
In reality, only 12% of Swedish couples equally share the 480 days of leave, Bavman said, with women continuing to lead the way as the stay-at-home parent and men as the careerist.
952
April 23, 2015 .
We're also delivering a random fact about a state vegetable and showing how a robot has two legs up on good balance.
TRANSCRIPT .
953
Car horns blared.
Zarif joins Iranian students cheer "Zarif We Love You" outside press conference at #IranTalks.
pic.twitter.com/S2dVzeAsZl .
954
As Nina Shea, director of the Hudson's Institute's Center for Religious Freedom, has aptly put it, "Piece by piece, Middle Eastern Christianity is being shattered."
955
Obama said even if Iran can't be trusted, there's still a case to be made for the deal.
956
"China is still pulling away from India," the Beijing-based reporter said.
"There no question that India's rise is far less threatening than China's rise."
957
1. Switzerland .
Within the French-speaking province of Quebec, a tour through the historic city of Old Quebec is a treat for any Francophile.
958
Obesity, he told me, "is becoming a national security issue."
"The obesity issue is the most troubling because the trend is going in the wrong direction," he said.
959
In a lawsuit filed four months later, Bradley said Hernandez fired at him during a limo ride after leaving the club and that Hernandez intentionally "possessed a gun which he was not legally licensed to have."
960
Mohamud is "credited with having an extensive terrorist network within Kenya," according to a ministry document given to CNN.
The gunmen called them out.
961
Other pest control companies on the Virgin Islands were found in possession of methyl bromide and officials said they are checking records to see whether it was used improperly.
962
But the sitcom make-believe is far from what Vergara is dealing with now.
But experts say this lawsuit is bringing up a lot of interesting issues.
963
The church became alarmed and cited how the federal government allows an exception for American Indians to use another illegal drug, peyote, in their religious ceremonies.
964
They just sent a sniper to the roof.
His friend died, he says.
 Al-Janabi, like so many others, is frustrated with the lack of support from Baghdad.
965
Jon "Bones" Jones, the reigning UFC light heavyweight champion, is wanted for "his possible involvement in a hit-and-run accident" Sunday morning, Albuquerque police said.
966
An official with knowledge of the government's figures told CNN in 2012 that the list contained about 21,000 names, including about 500 Americans.
967
(CNN)There will be no hate crime charges for two males arrested in the beating of a man that may have been sparked by a question about the 2014 shooting of Michael Brown.
968
(CNN)Georgia Southern University was in mourning Thursday after five nursing students were killed the day before in a multivehicle wreck near Savannah.
969
Her comment drew a rebuke from Chinese authorities, who said public figures should respect China's sovereignty and independence.
970
A lot of the new fans that did not get to experience what Selena was about hopefully will be able to get a sense of her with this new technology that's going to be coming out."
971
According to CNN affiliate WDIV,  investigators believe Stephen was scalded with hot water, beaten and strangled in August 2012, while Stoni was killed in May 2013.
972
They said the theft, from a road junction "infested" by cycle thieves was caught on surveillance cameras.
"It has a special meaning to me," he said, according to SMN.
973
According to the FBI, she is believed to be living in Cuba.
Elizabeth Anna Duke is wanted for her alleged involvement in a string of crimes spanning the late 1970s through the early 1980s, according to the FBI.
974
Bachmann is no stranger to voicing her opinion on the President's dealing with Iran, personally telling him to "bomb Iran" during the 2014 White House Christmas Party.
975
" Coloring books like Farrarons' pocket-sized volume bring a bit of calming and spirituality to the masses, but for some adult enthusiasts coloring is just a fun throwback to a simpler time, she added.
976
Taking time out between acting jobs, he ventured into the projects.
aspects of the narrative suggest hope and the possibility of reincarnation for the city.
977
According to a Wall Street Journal report Thursday, Chinese nuclear experts have told the United States that Pyongyang may already have as many as 20 nuclear warheads.
978
In February,  anchor Keith Olbermann was not on the air for most of a week after a Twitter spat that the anchor had with fans of Penn State University.
979
In Nigeria, Boko Haram also has a very specific approach to women.
In Darfur, government-backed militias were accused of using mass rape to humiliate the non-Arab groups.
980
"I wanted to clarify my comments on 'thugs,'" she wrote Wednesday on Twitter.
 "When you speak out of frustration and anger, one can say things in a way that you don't mean."
981
He was just Bush, as he should have been, just as Clinton is just Clinton, a woman who has done a very good job distinguishing herself from her husband without the need to be referred to by her first name in order to avoid a case of mistaken identity.
982
More:
Since that time, she has been a mainstay both of the main team and spin-off series including "Exiles" and "X-Force."
More:
More:
©2015
983
He's been charged with engaging in conduct in preparation of acts of terrorism, and with engaging in conduct with the intention of assisting others to commit acts of terrorism.
984
"The entire city was under darkness," Christina Berry of England wrote for CNN affiliate IBN from Kathmandu.
The power supply had been cut off.
985
Artist Dave Poulin has "had plenty of opportunity to step forward, and our last conversation he wanted $8,000 to $10,000," Celoron Mayor Scott Schrecengost said.
986
Yemeni special forces, considered pro-Houthi and loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, arrived in Aden on Thursday in an attempt "to secure the city," a Saudi official with knowledge of the situation told CNN.
987
The trio knew Cuba would most likely let them stay.
 Cuban officials denied his request for military training to fight with revolutionary groups in Africa.
988
Gutai has worked in cooperation with universities and manufacturers to make sure the building is viable, and while the prototype house is only a small space (eight square meters in total) it demonstrates the power of this new technology.
989
With enlistments falling away in 1916, Prime Minister Billy Hughes pushed for conscription and pushed through the Unlawful Associations Act.
990
Facts are facts.
Sure, he can shred it on "Girls, Girls, Girls" and "Dr. Feelgood," but this is a different story -- a completely different story.
991
The difference here is the governing authority's stamp: The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
Detained ISIS members speak from Iraqi jail .
992
Disney has been developing a sequel to "Legacy" since the movie grossed $400 million worldwide.
She is repped by WME, Untitled and Ziffren Brittenham.
993
So's Bill Murray, George Clooney, Scarlett Johansson, Jerry Seinfeld, Howard Stern, Tina Fey, Michael Keaton and Ray Romano.
994
According to police documents in the rape case, Kinsman said Winston raped her after she had been drinking with friends at a bar in Tallahassee.
995
Despite his lack of acting experience, Crombie's boy-next-door looks and cool demeanor made him the perfect actor to star opposite Follows, Sullivan said.
996
One that Pope Francis once owned just sold for $30,500, according to Castells, an auction house in Uruguay.
The proceeds will go to a school in Montevideo, Uruguay.
997
"This is a treasure trove," he said Monday night from his home in East Texas, where he works as an ER doctor.
The graffiti looks like it was written yesterday, he added.
998
"Despite the films' cumulative worldwide gross of almost $2.4 billion, their racial inclusiveness remains an outlier; American movies are still overwhelmingly white," EW's Chris Lee writes.
999
In July, Al-Shabaab gunmen opened fire on the Lamu coast, a popular tourist region, and at a police station in a neighboring county.
1000
"Marleni Olivo," Maduro said.
Olivo told local media her intention was to toss the president a note, as others in the crowd were doing.
1001
Later that month, the ICC opened a preliminary examination into the situation in Palestinian territories, paving the way for possible war crimes investigations against Israelis.
1002
The plus-size clothing retailer has launched an ad campaign for its Cacique line titled #ImNoAngel, seeking to "redefine sexy."
1003
And that work has led policy experts to conclude that a 2-degree world is something none of us should want.
But the more you smoke, the more you up your risk.
1004
"As (landscapes) change, your feelings do."
"The branches are the mirror of the roots."
Photography has also allowed Le Coq to explore his home country.
1005
Pederson said that most of the injured people at the base camp had been airlifted out by Sunday afternoon.
He told CNN that he'd put one dead man inside a sleeping bag and zipped it up.
1006
The mission, a joint effort between Indian air crew and a Nepalese army medical team, is only the third operation of its kind to reach the village since Saturday's massive 7.8-magnitude quake, which left more than 5,000 people dead.
1007
Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, told the Washington Post that the same "painless" argument had been used to advance the use of lethal injections.
1008
The post was removed a day later, just before Dickens was arrested, CNN affiliate WSB reported.
A judge set a $10,000 bond for her and banned her from social media.
1009
Sooliman said that along with the government strongly condemning the violence, community engagement is happening now as it never happened before.
1010
" Lesnie's impressive body of work also includes the post-apocalyptic science fiction film "I Am Legend" (2007), directed by Francis Lawrence and starring Will Smith; "The Last Airbender" (2010), from M. Night Shyamalan; and Healing (2014), helmed by Craig Monahan.
1011
The plan now is to spend a few weeks to get oriented with freedom and "sort out what he wants to do," Stevenson said.
1012
But the show will very much continue -- not only does it have a few weeks before the 11th season is over, Pompeo is also signed through season 12.
1013
The brawl took place in front of Fat Tuesday, which opened at the food court Friday.
Three men were arrestted in connection to the brawl, according to police.
1014
Now as Tax Day approaches, we are flooded with advertisements about America getting its billions back, without even having to pay to prepare the forms.
1015
The climbers can't head down because the dangerous Khumbu Icefall has been ravaged by a series of aftershocks.
Several Everest climbing teams have confirmed deaths.
1016
A Saudi source told CNN that special forces supplied weapons and communication equipment to Yemeni fighters in Aden loyal to Hadi.
1017
Laser seeding can make more than clouds: it can also trigger lightning.
So, we are still working on that, but there is hope."
1018
We stand together,"  after a noose was found hanging from a tree on campus.
And this is not the Duke we're here to create,' " Duke President Richard Brodhead told the crowd.
1019
The woman said marshals asked her to stop recording but she told them she had a right to do so.
It is unclear what happened to the video she recorded.
1020
The German appeared upset as he left his car and refused to shake Hamilton's hand.
"I am frustrated"
"It's so close and of course I would have wanted to have pole today...
1021
But the phone was logged on to a social media network under his account.
"They also found his game being analyzed in one of the chess applications," the chess club said.
1022
Most of the politicians accused in the investigation belong to Rousseff's Workers Party and its allies.
CNN's Shasta Darlington reported from Sao Paulo.
1023
As did a late Justin Rose surge, where he fired four birdies in a row to finish twelve under and in second place.
The 21 year old has been nothing short of a sensation at Augusta.
1024
Shreeves acknowledges that with this lifestyle come certain restrictions; she has learned to make most of her food from scratch to avoid packaging.
1025
He hoped to give the legal route a little longer.
He tells me he now plans to follow his friend.
He believes they were working for the security forces.
1026
While the sale and private consumption of cannabis is legal in Colorado, the federal government still considers it a Schedule I controlled substance like heroin or LSD, a dangerous drug with "no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse."
1027
With medical marijuana legal in nearly half the states, doctors are increasingly studying what effect the drug has on various ailments.
1028
A total of 15 defendants were charged originally, but most took plea deals, WFTV reported.
Last October, Dante Martin stood trial and was convicted of the same charges.
1029
Friends who were waiting for Melamed to cross the finish line said the university professor and motivational speaker is dedicated and motivated.
1030
Since it began on March 26, Saudi Arabia has launched more than 1,200 airstrikes.
Saudi officials claim to have killed more than 500 Houthi rebels.
1031
He stressed that Nigeria's security needs to be the next government's focus.
Some families moved abroad and there was sporadic violence across the country in the lead up to the election.
1032
After leaving court, Barrientos was arrested and charged with theft of service and criminal trespass for allegedly sneaking into the New York subway through an emergency exit, said Detective Annette Markowski, a police spokeswoman.
1033
The three have been in jail since February 22.
The third man, Neil Munro, is a British national who lives in the UAE.
1034
It's not clear where he expects the refugees to go, other than somewhere into Somalia and out of Kenya.
1035
He noted at his announcement (with a familiar note of wise irony):  "People should not underestimate me."
 How many American politicians have ever said this aloud?
1036
I also appeared in each episode of the program.
It is difficult to date the Gospel itself.
Goodacre: This is one of the great mysteries about the character!
1037
Tapper joined CNN from ABC in 2013 to anchor "The Lead."
On "State of the Union," he succeeds Candy Crowley, who signed off the program last December.
1038
Get rid of the clock.
Tips have been extracted from the book "The Eureka Factor", which has been written by Dr. John Kounios and Dr. Mark Beeman.
1039
Melton said Curtsinger distributed the highly coveted bourbon through a network of connections in his softball league.
1040
BOYCOTT MEMORIES PIZZA!!" said Rob Katz of Indianapolis.
But one outburst in particular shut down the restaurant Wednesday and was expected to do the same Thursday.
1041
Maybe the investigation should be going faster.
Police deal with them every day, literally.
Problems police did not cause and cannot solve.
1042
The local police chief said the bomber was inside the vehicle among the U.N. staff.
In the Sunday incident, three African Union troops were ambushed in the Lower Shabelle region.
1043
Chokalingam had spent his college years as a "hard-partying frat boy," and achieved a less than stunning 3.1 GPA.
Industries like health care and Hollywood.
1044
The temperature was recorded at Argentina's Esperanza Base on the northern tip of the Antarctica Peninsula, according to CNN affiliate WTNH.
1045
Get the reaction."
 Sensing my presence, he said, "I wonder what the world will be like without him."
 The headline: . "It has been a long journey.
1046
That manpower should have been enough to arrest him, he said.
"We're putting our faith in God that justice will be served, and we can get some closure in this situation."
1047
When asked if he kicked in the door, Baldwin said, "I kicked the door but did not ... break the windows," the document said.
1048
"It's, in fact, a classic example of necessity being the mother of deliciousness," Anthony Bourdain says of the dish during the premiere episode of "Parts Unknown" on Sunday, April 26, at 9 p.m. ET/PT.
1049
"Ultimately, though, all of our families are going to be vulnerable.
The impacts of climate change could make the situation worse."
1050
In some ways, the campaign for Mosul has begun, according to officials.
Calling for "patience," an administration official said that winning Mosul is a complex endeavor.
1051
Organizers hope the challenge will raise public awareness of the struggles for families to afford food while on food stamps.
1052
In January, Paddy Power attracted headlines after backing David Ginola's failed candidacy for the presidency of world football's governing body.
1053
When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said.
The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters.
1054
McDonnell is the self-taught photography star behind Instagram's most liked photo, showing the couple's embrace at their May wedding, which has earned more than 2.4 milllion "likes" to date.
1055
(CNN)Two of the best actresses on television are back on "The Big Bang Theory" -- one of our six suggested things to watch this week.
6. "Younger," Tuesday 10 p.m., TV Land .
1056
At 17, Hernandez went off to the University of Florida and seemed headed for greatness.
He was even questioned in relation to a shooting after a fight at a Gainesville, Florida, nightclub.
1057
Police said Kim stabbed Lippert with a 10-inch knife because he opposed the joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which happen every year and frequently draw the ire of North Korea.
1058
The plane was coming back from the NCAA Final Four championship game in Indianapolis, according to Illinois State athletics spokesman John Twork.
"The ISU community is reeling from the loss," Twork said.
1059
O'Farrill: "I do hope to meet him someday.
 In this case, I haven't had anyone ask for forgiveness."
Tom Teves: "God will forgive anyone who asks for forgiveness.
1060
In his statement to investigators, Bates said he "became an advanced TCSO Reserve Deputy in 2007."
But an Arizona official told CNN Bates never trained with the agency.
1061
Dollar noted in a recent address to his congregants that the devil was attempting to discredit him in regards to his campaign seeking $300 from 200,000 people globally to help buy the luxury jet.
1062
But the seemingly tepid response to Strong's routine may have been partly due to the late hour.
But I stayed tuned, just so I could watch, and grade, the results.
1063
Certainly, you couldn't go far on Twitter (even before Clinton tweeted her announcement), without an opinion or thought on her new campaign (there were over 3 million views of her announcment tweets in one hour, and 750,000 Facebook video views so far by Sunday evening).
1064
We like having any event because cancer sucks, and there's not a lot of happy that goes with that.
So giving them the opportunity to meet and support each other is very powerful.
1065
A&E, Lifetime and History (formerly the History Channel) announced Thursday that the three networks would simulcast a remake of the saga of Kunta Kinte, an African who was captured, shipped to America and sold into slavery to work on a Virginia plantation.
1066
But Abu Khdeir's family objected to his inclusion on the memorial wall.
Almagor described the teen's death as a rogue attack and said he's not a terror victim.
1067
But Zuriel Oduwole isn't "most kids."
She turned to the web to find the tools she needed and got involved in the entire filmmaking process.
1068
From a policing perspective, there wasn't even good reason to use a Taser against Harris.
These people perhaps buy a police-like car for their personal car.
1069
The smuggler explained that the "final price" for Syrians -- often thought to be richer than their African migrant counterparts -- was $1,000.
1070
The baby was a bit tardy, going past his due date by more than a week.
Her super-sized family and their lives have been well-documented on their TLC series, including Jill and Derick's wedding on June 21.
1071
Unfortunately, Cheryl Rios' view of women is not unique.
Rios said that if Clinton is elected, she is "moving to Canada" because "a female shouldn't be president."
1072
The final film featuring the late Paul Walker, "Furious 7" is opening around the globe this weekend and earned a record-breaking $60 million internationally on Wednesday and Thursday for a possible worldwide debut approaching or crossing $300 million by the end of Easter Sunday.
1073
"Military action against Libyan territory is an unwise decision," he said.
"You need to deal with the Libyan crisis as a whole.
1074
The Oscar winner put on white makeup (and a lot of tattoos this time) to portray the Clown Prince of Crime in the upcoming movie "Suicide Squad."
1075
What is directly observable is that while the government proved capable of providing security in some areas, in others it utterly failed.
1076
Clark attributed Bates' actions to a phenomenon known as "slip and capture."
Police are trained to "double-tap" when firing their handguns, he said.
1077
The researchers say the temperatures they measured are too low and water too scarce "to support terrestrial organisms" (sorry, bunny fans).
1078
Also for sale were some of Bacall's most loved jewelry pieces, created by legendary French designer Jean Schlumberger, most known for his work at Tiffany & Co.
1079
(CNN)As art, film stills are often overlooked.
, he said.
Photographers such as Haas were entrusted to bring their talent and style to the work.
1080
"Prince Harry has trained and served alongside Australian armed forces on operational tours to Afghanistan; he has met them during the Invictus Games; and even trekked to the South Pole with a couple of Australian soldiers," the spokesman said.
1081
Yes, we have a great success story to tell about our state.
We see it every day.
It's worked there, and it will work for the nation as well.
1082
But it proved expensive and politically contentious, and Europe was not prepared to help Italy shoulder the burden of the crisis.
1083
The comedic actress said smoking marijuana is "good medicine" for relieving the pressure in her eyes.
Roger Ailes: Why Fox News will never hire Jon Stewart .
1084
Last month, two top-ranking officials were suspended following an incident at a White House command post during an investigation of a possible bomb.
1085
A recent story in The Washington Post suggests that her advisers are aware of this potential liability.
She will need to address these concerns, not through her style but through her agenda.
1086
(CNN)U.S. President Barack Obama's recent explanation of how his administration will engage with the Middle East is far from reassuring to the region.
1087
The Department of Justice's full-on negotiations with the leadership in Ferguson will determine the shape of the new Ferguson Police Department.
1088
Meanwhile, anger over the incident and the police response to it continued to grow ahead of a major rally that organizers vowed would "shut this city down on Saturday."
1089
Spinnell said he has contacted Blood-Dzraku twice on Facebook, but has yet to hear back.
Blood-Dzraku could not be reached for comment.
1090
Stewart said a cargo manager called the couple to an office after they landed at Kennedy last week and notified them that their cat's carrier had been crushed.
A representative for Etihad Airways told CNN that the loss of pets during air travel is "extremely rare."  
The airline shipped more than 200 pets last year.
1091
These photos highlight the uniqueness of Andean culture, which draws influences from Europe, the Inca and more recently, Chinese traditions.
1092
Jordan came ashore Thursday evening.
But when it became difficult to catch dinner, he took off for the ocean in hopes he would land some bigger fish.
1093
Zavala holds his shoulder after being bitten by Arango, in the game Zavala's side won 4-3 in Mexico .
He has made 121 appearances for Venezuela.
1094
Gardner has enjoyed a successful loan spell at Nottingham Forest and scored a superb free-kick in front of the Villa manager during the defeat to Watford at the City Ground.
1095
Even within the American Heart Association, one of the organizations promoting the current salt limits, there is disagreement with at least one former president claiming that there is no evidence that reducing salt consumption can lower blood pressure .
1096
The Michigan Micro Mote is the first complete, operational computer system measuring as small as two millimeters across.
Blaauw explained.
1097
But motoring groups fear the switch to a fully online system will make it more difficult for car hire firms which want to check a motorist’s details.
1098
Elsewhere, solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) are seen erupting on the sun’s surface, sending out huge amounts of energy.
1099
Rose believes that his finish of second at Augusta can boost his season with some big events ahead .
Very happy it turned around this week in a major championship.
1100
But her council has ruled that Mrs Robinson can keep the hedge, although it has to be cut to 20ft.
The local authority cannot make any orders about the roots of the hedge.
1101
With house prices soaring, it's not easy finding somewhere to live.
He is content with his life in between the usual confines of society .
1102
Supporters are planning to boycott today’s game at home to Spurs in protest at what they see as a lack of investment and ambition from owner Mike Ashley.
1103
'Even though his (Nadal's) form is not as good as in previous years, I still believe when the French Open rolls around he is going to be very difficult to beat.'
1104
But Sarah didn't just receive harsh comments.
Sarah wore this sexy black dress on a 'date night' when she was 37 weeks pregnant, two weeks before James was born .
1105
But there is confusion because it isn't The Beatles' famous last U.S. show at Candlestick Park, San Francisco, that McLean is singing about, but The Rolling Stones' performance at nearby Altamont in 1969.
1106
Another resident, Peter Smith, said he had been left with a wheelie bin full of rotting waste after the collection team refused to empty it because they saw a piece of cellophane paper.
1107
'Nobody aiming at no police,' Williams said.
In another conversation, Williams expressed concern about a possible lengthy prison sentence.
1108
Cry for help!
They are expected to survive.
The fire crew in Boise, Idaho, thought they were chasing human voices when the found the birds .
1109
Crystal Palace vs Manchester City (Selhurst Park) Team news .
Man City have won the last seven matches in a row against Palace in all competitions.
1110
In an interview with NPR, Obama said likely Republican presidential candidate Scott Walker may change his 'foolish' position on a deal with Iran 'after he's taken some time to bone up on foreign policy'
1111
Last month, filmmaker Milliken (right) appeared on CNBC to speak about the movie.
In a statement, the company spokesman explained why they decided to pass on speaking to Milliken.
1112
Manchester City are monitoring Juventus striker Alvaro Morata.
Manchester City are keeping tabs on Juventus striker Alvaro Morata ahead of possible summer bid .
1113
It is my judgment that on your own this fraud would not have been committed.
He added that the couple must have seen the majority of the proceeds.
1114
‘I’ve no complaints there, so I hope it will be sorted before Saturday and I can concentrate on our home game against Motherwell. ‘Our new board of directors have been fantastic.
1115
Julia admitted that she is clueless as to why the presidential candidate's hairstyle has been the focus of such intense interest, adding: 'Hair, for some reason, is a really big deal.'
1116
Musk introduced the Powerwall device at a press conference in California last night and said the technology could 'change the world'.
1117
Steven Finn believes he's regained his previous best form and is ready to push for an England place .
I’m gutted I’m not in the West Indies, but this is the next best thing.’
1118
Liverpool and Italy striker Mario Balotelli acknowledged the anniversary on his Instagram page .
QPR also sent their thoughts to Liverpool and the families of the people who died .
1119
West Ham insist they will not be listening to offers for left back Aaron Cresswell.
The defender has attracted the attention of several top clubs including Chelsea.
1120
Government reports found 98 percent of the seals (pictured) killed in the Canadian commercial seal slaughter are less than three months of age, according to HSI .
1121
Hundreds of Villa fans celebrated victory over their local rivals by storming onto the pitch .
1122
Located on the outskirts of Christchurch, the wildlife park is unique in that the people are caged in order to view the animals, not the other way around.
1123
Sean O'Driscoll's team have missed out on this summer's European Championship finals in Greece .
Substitutes not used: Bingourou Kamara, Nicolas Senzemba, Kingsley Coman, Lyes Houri .
1124
Villa and Everton are keen to sign the England international.
Manchester United and City are said to be interested in Burnley's dangerous striker Danny Ings .
1125
Thee president looks at selection of Bob Marley's gold records at the Bob Marley Museum in Kingston .
Obama is in Jamaica to meet the 15-member Caribbean Community bloc.
1126
Police have arrested a 14-year-old on suspicion of helping to plot a terror attack in Australia (file photo)
1127
She had seen an advert on Facebook.
According to the British Dental Health Foundation the effects of professional whitening can last for up to three years.
1128
Joint runner-up with Phil Mickelson, the Englishman was delighted with his performance, as he pushed winner Jordan Speith all the way on the final day and earned himself a hefty pay-day.
1129
He argued that pushing up wages will block recruitment.
Raising wages too fast will simply reduce employment opportunities,’ he said.
1130
Mr King said he was born and had grown up in a multicultural part of Melbourne, where he had been on the giving and receiving ends of 'racial prejudice and bigoted views'.
1131
Faced with more than $100,000 a year in tuition fees, the mayor may not find himself disqualified from seeking aid said Mark Kantrowitz, the publisher of Edvisors.com, which works in financial aid.
1132
RJ, pictured recently right, suffers Netherton's syndrome, an incredibly rare illness which causes his skin to appear red and scaly .
1133
Germany insists the reparations issue was settled in 1990 legally and politically before Germany reunified.
1134
She found the only way she could enjoy the holiday was to stay indoors, emerging at night to go to the beach and explore the town in the dark.
1135
But instead of removing her tattoo as she hoped, Jessica's dangerous DIY treatment gave her chemical burns.
Jess realised the tattoo was a big mistake when Jack dumped her .
1136
Aaron Ramsey has told his English team-mates at Arsenal to beware Wales overtaking them in the FIFA rankings.
1137
Lewandowski could have had a second goal 10 minutes later, but Trapp reacted well to deny him.
He is now just three behind Eintracht Frankfurt's Alexander Meier.
1138
The central defender, who has been likened to Rio Ferdinand, has tipped to be a future England international.
1139
The Court of Appeal found that Mr Sharland, 54, had deliberately hidden information and lied to the court but refused to overturn the divorce settlement.
1140
The service will be available for iOS devices along with Apple TV set-top box, providing access to shows like Game of Thrones (left) and the Sopranos (right)
1141
Kelly injected herself twice a day with drugs to stop her period and stimulate her ovaries, and after a few months she will have stored up enough for them to be harvested.
1142
Militants fighting for the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq are being led by a highly secretive group of strategists and officials that were once senior figures in Saddam Hussein's army.
1143
If Ward’s intention is to take Sterling away from Liverpool this summer, the player is not making his job easy right now.
1144
The men swoop on the lady and attempt to pull the crowbar out of her hands, sending her sprawling onto the ground .
It is unknown what caused the triggered the violent dispute.
1145
Dyke has revealed that Kane wants to play for England's Under 21s side at the European Championships .
1146
'Food and drink will be provided as part of an all-inclusive hotel package and it would be a civilised and friendly environment.'
1147
Begovic's deputy Jack Butland recently extended his contract until 2019 while manager Mark Hughes also agreed new terms on an extension.
1148
As there are just 10,000 bottles, it's well worth picking up.
Lacura Eye Shadow Box (£3.99, Aldi, from April 19) comes in four tones to suit your colouring.
1149
Sam Allardyce is making plans for next season at West Ham but he does not know if he'll still be manager .
‘We’re planning for next season,' he said.
1150
Expeditions take place in a 
 Only eight people took the voyage between 2002 and 2006 and after the recession put a strain on luxury spending.
1151
After dictating from the baseline in the first set, he was able to raise his game when Monfils looked capable of coming back.
1152
Gloucester lock Mariano Galarza wins a lineout as his pack look to set up another attack .
‘It’s going to be a huge final,’ said Gloucester director of rugby David Humphreys.
1153
I’ll be done with her in a minute.
In surveillance video that was taken in the hotel lobby, Sapp (left) can be seen walking and talking with a man .
Sapp has yet to comment on the video.
1154
The 42-year-old has since been found.
Amanda Holden said her sister was trapped on the mountain and may have been saved because she had altitude sickness.
1155
Family life:
'Overcome something':
On his application Aydian said he may always battle with his body but being healthy is his key to 'finding peace'
1156
Balthazar King received treatment from a vet on the track for at least an hour before being taken to an equine hospital.
‘I had nowhere to go,’ he said.
1157
Justice Heenan said the women were going about their lives peacefully at home and the crime showed the vulnerability of the community.
1158
And then came the trailer.
A pilot is seen in battle in the film that has a December release .
The clip was the first time the vet character Han Solo, played by Ford, was seen.
1159
It comes down to education, says Mr Gushon-Harris, who travels the country teaching women about the dangers of cosmetic treatments.
1160
A day later, the teen told Barnes in a text message, 'I want her gone,' police said.
Police found the body in a shallow grave a few miles from the Silvonek home.
1161
Hodgson, who was a youth team player for Palace in the 1960s and is from the area, will have been casting his eye over a host of English players.
1162
Last year, a Maryland-based UFO hunter spotted what he believed to be a 'decorative' box on the red planet.
I won't mind being told that I'm wrong,' Cignac says.
1163
Above, the bus is pictured in a wrecked off after the standoff on Friday .
At around 6.30pm, police shot at the suspect multiple times.
1164
The Spanish league side are the fifth team he has been on loan to while his work permit issues have needed  resolving.
1165
The Portuguese international but in a display that was deemed impressive, even by his standards, as he put five goals past goalkeeper Oier Olazabal.
1166
While this could indicate ore alien activity, the CIA recently claimed that half of UFO sightings in the US were linked to them testing U2 spy planes (pictured) at altitudes of 60,000 ft .
1167
Sterling has never said he wants to leave the club according to his manager, despite his contract dispute .
1168
Tiger Woods has revealed his wrist bone popped out after he swung and hit a tree root during the final round of the Masters on Sunday.
'At least I got it back in; I could move my hand again.
1169
Julian Howells, prosecuting, said the 'defendant was doing less' and the relationship deteriorated .
He was also ordered not to intimidate, harass or pester his wife .
1170
Mathieson can be heard laughing while she watches Gizmo in action.
Show's over: When he reaches laughing Mathieson on the floor, he eventually steps back down to four paws .
1171
Adam Federici tries in vain to stop Alexis Sanchez's strike from going over the line in Saturday's FA Cup game .
1172
Albert is pictured with a sinister paw on the tail of a toy mouse, with the same angered look on his face .
1173
‘It is further alleged that each of these five breaches of FA Rule E3(1) is an ‘Aggravated Breach’ as defined in Rule E3(2), as each included a reference to disability.
1174
Russian flotilla on military exercise in the Channel escorted from UK waters by HMS Tyne.
Nato aircraft called in to hunt suspected Russian submarine off the west coast of Scotland.
1175
In his statement to investigators, Bates said he had previously attended a five-day homicide school in Dallas and also received 'active shooter response training' with the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office in Arizona.
1176
She appointed two of the country’s foremost dementia experts who concluded his dementia is at an advanced stage and would never improve.
1177
Rooney and several of his United team-mates only returned home from international duty on Wednesday afternoon after a technical fault on the England team plane delayed their departure from Turin.
1178
The former state government introduced new laws last year allowing council to institute 'party house restriction areas' where short-term rental properties will be forbidden from operating.
1179
Youthful exuberance may go only so far against Klitschko though, who has shown himself a master technician during his long run.
1180
In his speech at a scaffolding firm this morning, Mr Cameron told activists that Labour do not care about anything 'west of Bristol', adding: 'Now imagine what it would be like if Alex Salmond was calling the shots.'
1181
Castro lured her into his home on April 21, 2003, on a promise to see his daughter, her acquaintance.
Gina DeJesus was abducted using a similar ploy by Castro a year later.
1182
Four years have passed since Dmitry Rybolovlev's takeover prompted a slew of big-name arrivals at the Stade Louis II, with the likes of Radamel Falcao, James Rodriguez and Joao Moutinho signed for hefty transfer fees.
1183
Ms Lord said her parents, who were members of a local church, had been 'inseparable' and her mum's death had left the whole family devastated.
1184
Call me please' she replies before adding, 'Now'
She convinces her mother by sending a picture of herself, her mother does not find it amusing .
1185
Messi and Mascherano stretch off during Thursday's training session, with Celta Vigo ahead on Sunday .
Barca always has to be the team that takes the initiative.'
1186
Author Jonathan Maitland said people were 'ready' for the play to be shown less than three years after the abuse was exposed .
1187
An image of former Arsenal star Cesc Fabregas hangs from the Ken Friar Bridge at the Emirates Stadium .
Take that down.'
'We are not like Chelsea.
1188
The island has baffled experts for over a hundred years who say it could have been anything from a prison, to a palace or monastry .
1189
Lawyers are pleading with Jakarta to respect legal proceedings that several are still pursuing, while international pressure for mercy also grows.
1190
'For at least a year now we have had an issue with rubbish bags being dumped in the alleyway,' said Mr Liaqat.
'Our staff must also lead by example.
1191
He's a different guy, he's not such a usual player.
'He was so fast.
I don't think it is nice for me to talk about a player who plays for FC Tokyo.
1192
He is not a danger - I wouldn't have him near my kids.
'Unfortunately he does have a thing about postmen but it is the mail they carry and not the postmen themselves.
1193
Shortly after, a 27-year-old woman with arm injuries and a six-year-old girl suffering from abdominal pain were also being flown out.
1194
Local officials are now considering two options - electroshocking the fish or draining the lake .
The gold fish will likely end up at a local raptor rehabilitation program as food.
1195
And at the last there was a horrible fanned approach that threatened to trim the lead to just three, before Spieth conjured up a remarkable up and down to give him momentum heading into what promises to be another momentous Masters Sunday.
1196
'My decisions will not be affected by changes in management, but more by the challenges that will be offered to me.'
1197
Subs not used: Ansaldi, Bernabe, Cani, Hernandez .
But his side's defending will nonetheless have hurt the former Manchester United manager.
1198
'Purdah' rules bar Government advertising campaigns before a general election so that it does not promote the cause of a certain political party.
1199
Blackpool are in talks to sign Austria defender Thomas Piermayr.
He has never played in England but Blackpool could give the defender his first chance.
1200
Almeria had succumbed to all three threats.
Veteran midfielder Xavi stumbles under pressure from Almeria players as Barcelona look to see out the game .
1201
Above, at least 16 men are marched down a beach in Libya by militants before they are killed .
Ethiopia's options to retaliate remain slim, given its distance from Libya.
1202
Phil Taylor suffered his fourth loss of the Premier League season with defeat to Dave Chisnall in a dramatic night of darts on Thursday.
1203
The Burnley boss also said he was not too concerned by their struggles to find the net - they have only scored once in five games.
1204
While, Alena says she is proud of her husband and will 'support him no matter what' the Belarus native told NBC that the days following the incident have been 'stressful.'
1205
David Cameron has suggested using jujitsu to 'put Nigel Farage on the floor' in tonight's televised debate between seven party leaders.
But later he played down the idea of physical violence, telling reporters: 'It was a joke.
The two-hour live debate will be screened from 8pm to 10pm.
Each leader will give an opening statement to a studio audience of around 200 people.
1206
Mourinho is not afraid to hit where it hurts.
When Chelsea crashed out of Europe they were, as usual, snarling and disputing every decision.
1207
The only other indigenous face to join the 24-year-old stunner at the biggest week on the country's fashion calendar over the past two years is Lauren Feenstra.
1208
‘I have been training with Stipe [Miocic] - he is a really great guy.
Gonzaga believes that his skillset has got even better since the last time he took on Filipovic .
1209
Wells was spotted by talent scouts in New York City in 2005 and said at first she was offended at being asked to be a plus-sized model because of her misconceptions about the term .
1210
So, with a fashion brand, tanning range and false eyelash collection under her belt, what's next for Amy?
‘Some exciting things,' she revealed.
1211
They join Borussia Dortmund in the final four, after Jurgen Klopp's side came from behind to beat Hoffenheim.
1212
Sarah's ordeal was played out on TV after she agreed to appear on the Jeremy Kyle Show to undergo a DNA test.
On discovering the truth, Phil told Jeremy he will always be a father to Sarah .
1213
An American flag is displayed before the baseball game between the New York Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies at Citi Field .
However, the legendary NFL player threw the ball straight into the ground.at
1214
Shot fired:
Ms Hafford said the argument began when she was 'cut up' by the suspect as she turned into the feeder road to the North Freeway.
1215
It was not yet known how many people were inside the hotel at the time.
Beaumont street has been closed in both directions to allow emergency services access to the building .
1216
The number one attraction for Aussies heading overseas is Athens, one of the world's oldest cities, and considered by many to be the birthplace of democracy.
1217
Two more recently-groomed pooches stare sad-eyed into the camera as they show off new hairstyles .
This dog's owner has opted for the circular cut offered by salons in Taiwan .
1218
The former student testified he didn't come forward until 2013 because he was embarrassed, according to WMUR.
1219
The outfits, which will be worn at the World cup, have been criticised as they do not represent the US flag .
'Take Germany's kit for example, world champions.
1220
Kenny Jackett has told his Wolves players they must maintain their focus and follow up victory over Nottingham Forest with another over Leeds United on Monday.
1221
After working as a prostitute, later went on to run several brothels.
Has a violent past and a series of assault charges.
Was gunned down in 2002 outside a supermarket.
1222
Boan and Braddock were charged with possession of heroin, failure to report suspected child abuse, abandonment, neglect and possession/use of narcotics paraphernalia.
1223
There should be no shame in this defeat.
But on reflection, Saracens will be buoyed by this performance.
The future remains bright for them on the field.
1224
He added, 'There was such an amazing atmosphere out there.'
Button praised the 'amazing atmosphere' and collective spirit of the runners at the event .
1225
Host Jon Stewart suggested that in accepting federal funds, Kansas should be forced to give up items like roads 'paved with luxurious asphalt.'
1226
Groups of football fans are responsible for thuggish behaviour on trains on a weekly basis, a senior police officer has said.
I don't think it is.
1227
His inventiveness off-the-ball has been dulled by a lack of confidence.
He has flashes of brilliance but his form is erratic and fans want someone they can count on.
1228
With limited time, the pair rushed to California Veterinary Specialist Hospital in Ontario, where he was given an entire vile of venom antidote.
1229
With the score at 2-1 and just five minutes left on the clock at Wembley, much-maligned Reds striker Mario Balotelli had the ball in the net only to see the linesman unfairly flag for offside.
1230
Paris .
For a hearty meal on a budget, try L'As du Fallafel in the trendy Le Marais district .
Tokyo .
(Think Times Square, but even busier.)
1231
Animal rights activists have claimed that the pair's punishment was too lenient for their crime .
As a result of the incident, both men lost their job.
1232
All 12 bookings they have out in Nepal have been accounted for and plans are being made to return them home.
1233
She came up with a more permanent way to capture a person's individual scent in a bid to help others in mourning.
1234
These included Sebastian Lovera, 22, who was hiking to Mount Everest at the time of the earthquake but has now returned to Kathmandu to help victims of the disaster.
1235
One particular video featuring a simple recipe for 'rainbow' donuts has been watched more than 6.5 million times after it was shared in 2014.
1236
'I think the whole village will be shocked about it.
The tragic incident comes just two years after a man died in similar circumstances in the rural village.
1237
He opened proceedings in Arsenal's 2-0 home win over Everton and got another in the 2-1 victory against London rivals Queens Park Rangers.
1238
Once out of the cockpit, the door locked automatically.
The pilot has to flick one simple switch, pictured,  to lock the cabin door for between five and 20 minutes .
1239
Mr Cameron had planned to use the classroom visit to unveil his plan, which he said was intended to inject 'more rigour and zero tolerance of failure and mediocrity' in schools.
1240
The first infusion will take between two and four minutes, but once the bag is wet, any further uses will only take about 30 seconds to transfuse, Mr Gattuso says.
1241
Hugo Lloris will stay at Tottenham even if the club fail to qualify for the Champions League, says Pochettino .
It was good for Southampton because I love the people of Southampton, the players.
1242
Gabriel Ng spent countless hours filming Thailand’s picturesque coastline, religious sites and scenes of everyday life using a camera attached to a remote control drone.
1243
Korean left-back Yun Suk-Young is also back after three weeks out following a head injury but Rio Ferdinand is still among those unavailable.
1244
Hippy highlight: Model wears boho beaded crop top, flowing red maxi skirt and gold cuffs and earrings .
Models wear metallic foil pieces and fishnet overswim .
1245
It has a 'lightweight chassis' and is 3.2ft (1 metre) tall.
The firm's website describes Påhoj as being 'lightweight' but did not provide any further weight information.
1246
An American cable and satellite television network has pledged to crackdown on Australians who use overseas accounts to access the US-restricted streaming service HBO NOW.
1247
Tony Fernandes spoke of his despair after his Queens Park Rangers team twice threw away a lead .
.
'The decision on my future has been made.
1248
Two of his captors were killed when security forces took back the building where the far-left group was holding him.
and there was no statement on its website.
1249
‘Properties on the coastline with these breathtaking views have got a lot of appeal and are incredibly popular, which the series has made people more aware of.’
1250
In safe hands: In this December 2014 photo provided courtesy of ShelterMe, pilot Jim Nista delivers Finn, a rescued dog, in Everett, Washington .
1251
There is no licensed vaccine against malaria anywhere in the world and researchers say they are hopeful the results will be sufficient for RTS,S to gain a licence from the EMA.The
1252
Kyle Naughton has been ruled out for the rest of the season after David Meyler’s red card challenge on Saturday.
1253
World No 1 Williams eventually prevailed 4-6 7-6(3) 6-3 against the dogged Italian to take her career record over her to 8-0 but the American was not impressed.
1254
These comical printed cards were handed out by men  to women they found attractive .
This man's intent is made crystal clear by its very title .
1255
A Brazilian club that has former Brazil and Barcelona star Rivaldo as its president says it has hired Pele's troubled son Edinho as its coach.
Edinho briefly played for Santos in the 1990s.
1256
ISIS has launched English-language radio news bulletins on its Iraqi broadcast service - complete with information on the latest suicide bombings and 'martyrdom operations'.
1257
‘We used state-of-the-art plant science techniques to gain evidence for the role of the SAD1 gene in cocoa butter biosynthesis,’ he explained.
1258
'These men dominated the Premier League from their west London underground.
Several blue smoke bombs are then released by the practical jokers before they make a swift exit in their white van.
1259
EPA officials said Thursday the pesticide used in the Virgin Islands came from licensed distributors in Puerto Rico, where inspectors are visiting pesticide applicator companies, including Terminix.
1260
He said: 'As it happens, Cyril Smith, as you may know, the allegations surrounding him, actually go right back to the time when he was a Labour politician, back, well before I was even born, I think.'
1261
Brown's shooting led to sometimes-violent protests and spawned a national 'Black Lives Matter' movement calling for changes in how police deal with minorities.
1262
’ At just 21 years and 251 days, the Tottenham striker led out his side for the first time in draw with Burnley .
‘It was a very tough game,’ he said.
1263
West Brom 8/11 .
Managers: Tony Pulis (West Brom), Chris Ramsey (QPR) Head-to-head league record: West Brom wins 16, draws 9, QPR wins 12 .
1264
Lucas has played more games for Liverpool without winning a major trophy than anyone else in 50 years .
‘Wembley is like his second home.
1265
Macpherson led the review into the conduct of the Metropolitan Police during the murder investigation after the police's initial failure to apprehend the black teenager's killers.
1266
Luckily for Bjorn, and indeed the fan, he was able to take a free drop and resume the hole.
He tweeted: ‘P****d off with his performance from around the greens.’
1267
Hydrogel (pictured) has been around for decades, but it has risen to prominence in recent years, after being used in prosthetics for the likes of eye implants and blood vessels .
1268
Pacquiao's manager Michael Koncz has also expressed his frustration.
Ellerbe did say that tickets would be on sale last week but there is no sign of an end to the stalemate.
1269
Lewis Hamilton was fastest in first practice for this weekend's Chinese Grand Prix .
Daniil Kvyat  
Valtteri Bottas Williams-Mercedes 1:41.303 .
1270
The program was eventually halted not because it had run its course, but rather out of fear for public response should the details be revealed.
1271
During the footage Ms Kanwisher is heard explaining: 'It is hard to tell [what the different regions are] with all this hair in the way so let's take care of that.'
1272
Authorities only cottoned on after she said her 2010 marriage to Salle Keita, of Mali, -  the tenth time she tied the knot - was actually her first, the New York Post reported.
1273
The family's lawsuit is seeking $75,000 in compensation, as well as unspecified punitive damages, and calls for a court order prohibiting the use of police techniques 'that demean, disregard, or underserve its African-American population'
1274
Rotherham: Martinez, Hunt, Broadfoot, Wood, Lafferty, Smallwood, Arnason, (Frecklington, 69) Bowery, Green (Sammon, 76), Hammill, Derbyshire (Ward, 59) Subs not used: .
1275
I know this way of life isn't for everyone but I would love to see more people embracing it.
Drain soaked golden berries, and 10ml of the water .
1276
Researchers showed the Himba tribe in Namibia  11 green squares with one blue.
And even when a person knows that the pills are grey, they still see them as red or blue.
1277
Vuozzo was two years old when his older sister, Cathy, was killed in a crash in 1970.
At the time, he told the court that when Cathy was killed, 'Our lives were ruined'.
1278
She walked out on her daughter, leaving her own mother to care for her.
Cheryl says: 'Jack made me see life through his eyes.
He doesn't mind how I look.
1279
The #umbrella #cemetery.
'Where Umbrellas meet on a day like this in Sydney,' Darcystproject posted (left) on Instagram from Parramatta .
1280
'I was certain I was going to die': Rishi Khanal is carried out of a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu on a stretcher after being trapped under rubble for 82 hours following the earthquake that struck Nepal four days ago .
1281
The prosecution is claiming that conflict over sex was a main reason the couple’s marriage had fallen apart.
She made an application under ‘Clare’s Law’ to discover if he had a violent past.
1282
Tomkins, who celebrated his 26th birthday last month, becomes the third England international to rejoin Wigan in the last 12 months.
1283
On the left, images of normal hypothalamus POMC cells from a developing mouse.
On the right: when the gene for the transcription factor is deleted, the cells no longer make it .
1284
On Tuesday, Gov. Nixon refused a clemency petition that raised concerns about the fact that Cole, who was black, was convicted and sentenced by an all-white jury.
1285
'Favre is a coach who has worked really well with Gladbach.
Borussia Monchengladbach boss Lucien Favre is on course for Champions League football next season .
1286
Philadelphia .
He will wear No. 11 with the team.
He worked as a television analyst last year with the SEC Network and ESPN.
1287
Niki Lauda is fully expecting Nico Rosberg to turn 'nasty' at some stage after accusing the German and team-mate Lewis Hamilton of being 'egocentric b*******'.
1288
AP McCoy has urged the nation to follow his Aintree dream as he chases the fairytale end to his extraordinary career.
Let’s hope the dream can happen.
1289
The Angels would effectively be paying $68million for Hamilton to play in Texas.
Shortstop Elvis Andrus said: 'He is a player who can help everybody.
1290
Quigg (right) offered £1.5m to Frampton for a British super-fight, via his promoter Eddie Hearn .
But Frampton has branded the gesture a 'publicity stunt' and ridiculed the offer .
1291
She said: 'There had been a guy just before him who had got a cramp and had to stop for his friends to massage his leg.
'I had no idea what he was planning.
1292
Ms Greig said she had experienced deep depression for a year, and claimed that the event had changed her life permanently.
1293
Other provisions allow the death penalty if the victim is a child, a police officer, witness or court official, and if the crime is part of a mass murder.
1294
Dave Sim, 36, rides his Raleigh Chopper on the L'Etape du Tour last year.
'The other side of the challenge is to raise as much money for Help for Heroes as possible.'
1295
Ivan Gazidis says he is not happy with second place, and says the club may struggle in the near future .
1296
The club's vice captain puts pen to paper on a deal which will keep him at Liverpool until 2020 .
Henderson seen in training for Liverpool at Melwood on Thursday afternoon .
1297
Police have confirmed Mr Arwani visited the area where he was found dead two days before being fatally shot in his black car (above)
1298
All interesting info before considering any course changes in future.
Phil Mickelson was dressed all in black on Sunday as he tried to win the Masters for a fourth time .
1299
Sources told the newspaper that Edwards was then shuffled away.
However, the family has denied any grudge against either Edwards or the station where Colagrossi worked.
1300
Incredible nature moments the traveller missed due to napping include a pink dolphin watching tour and even a nail-biting piranha fishing expedition.
1301
Skinny jeans have held court for quite a few years now and while they will never go out of style the wide leg will give you an alternative look.
1302
The Football Association will be contacting QPR and Chelsea after an incident which saw Branislav Ivanovic struck on the head by a cigarette lighter thrown from a section of home supporters at Loftus Road.
1303
Edwin van der Sar (right) is convinced Louis van Gaal (left) will bring the glory days  to Manchester United .
1304
The researchers were able to detect early Parkinson's disease with a remarkable 85 per cent accuracy.
The team is now planning a larger study of Parkinson's patients.
1305
She told him that she wanted to go to the pool but that only he could see her - no other aides and no Secret Service.
1306
Mignolet has recovered from an early season dip in form to play a key role in Liverpool's rise up the table .
I've just turned 27 but I still pick up things every day.
1307
However, it's likely that most of the water formed an ocean that occupied the northern hemisphere of Mars, which would have been as deep as one mile (1.6km) in places - comparable to the Mediterranean Sea on Earth.
1308
Despite insisting he never saw a penny of the ‘missing’ funds, Mr Rudkin was forced to repay the money and his wife Susan, 60, who did most of the day-to-day running of the branch, was prosecuted and given a suspended prison sentence.
1309
A British teenager was also arrested on suspicion of helping to plot the ISIS-inspired attack during Anzac Day commemorations.
1310
An FBI agent's sniper rifle was  ripped out of his car's window and stolen from a Salt Lake City hotel parking lot just days before President Obama visited Utah earlier this month.
1311
John Carver has challenged his Newcastle players to relieve the pressure on their shoulders by adding another dent to Liverpool's Champions League hopes.
1312
David Cameron and Nick Clegg are not taking part because they have been in power for the last five years.
The 90-minute programme will cover five subjects.
1313
A connected 'pocket processor' convert that recording into an infrared image, which the goggles will then beam into the eye .
1314
A Chinese vessel is seen at the top .
Shown is an image of a dredging vessel in San Francisco, demonstrating how land can be moved from underwater .
1315
The Ukip leader said he would accept the result, but rejected claims his party would become 'redundant' as a result .
I think he is a threat to us.
1316
'They (City) don't lose three games, no.
'You never know, but it's all about to win the last six to have really a good chance to be one of the top four teams.'
1317
'Mr O'Brien said he was traumatised by reading these comments,' Miss Shipley said.
Akhmed Yakoob, defending, said Linton felt remorse over her actions, which were out of character.
1318
The footage recorded on a camera attached to his helmet was undamaged.
Since September last year he has been looked after by medical experts at his home in Gland, Switzerland.
1319
The pain can be intense enough to cause nausea and vomiting.
The bad news is that the number of people developing troublesome stones is rocketing.
1320
Lucy, who cites her role model as 'amazing' Jessica Alba, said she found working out 'boring' and 'difficult' at first because she had such a busy schedule that she found it  hard to get into a routine.
1321
She has expressed her desire to help others there as she continues to fight her disease.
Despite Lauren's disease getting worse, she has posted photos of herself on Facebook .
1322
Police say the man, a garbage truck driver, was collecting bins in Footscray early on Saturday morning when the truck rolled forward and pinned him against a pole.
1323
The investigator said Mr Kantaria ‘appears to move from the platform... and then he is caught by the camera just in the air, before being struck by the train’.
1324
Paul failed a field sobriety test, reported Lex18.com.
Those charges were dropped after Paul completed alcohol education classes and community service.
1325
June 2014 - HMS Montrose was sent to monitor a Russian corvette in international waters near Denmark's Baltic coast.
1326
In a statement a Delta Air Lines spokesperson said the flight crew noticed a ‘smoky odor in the cockpit’ while taxiing to the gate.
1327
The charges stemmed from an argument in February in Redding, California, that escalated and became physical, Bridgett said.
She declined medical attention.
1328
The BBC told ICM to make sure a fifth were so-called floating voters, and for every five Labour supporters in the room, it made sure there were five for the Conservatives, four for the Lib Dems, two for the Scottish National Party, two for the Green Party and one for Plaid Cymru.
1329
'There is too much talk about my future but I will remain here,' Cavani told Sky Italia after the Barcelona defeat.
Paris loves him and he loves Paris.'
1330
The film goes on to state that there ‘are cases when a space satellite pretends to be space junk for years and then wakes up and starts working at the right moment.’
1331
Strong is the new sexy: The show  on Tuesday night was held at White City Tennis Club in Paddington and featured real life fitness influencers .
1332
Rajee, who had been too 'embarrassed and ashamed' to go to the authorities, claims she paid just $100 per session to Morris for the life-changing injections back in 2005.
1333
Ms Wu lists her occupation online as 'housewife,' but she is otherwise shrouded in mystery and was referred to by NZ Herald as 'publicity shy.'
1334
'For some reason the guard let him go outside the shop with the phone at which point the man ran off.'
But when police arrived they quickly discovered Balashov’s selfie.
1335
Investigation:
Dash cam:
Slam:
 Round Rock Police Chief Allen Banks says he has reviewed the footage and believes Johnson acted within his rights .
1336
Police wearing face masks went around neighbouring streets with loudspeakers urging people to stay inside while the fire raged .
1337
Commenting on the judgement made on Tuesday night, disciplinary officer Sir James Dingemans said: 'This was a three week ban on the basis that no intention was found.
1338
A mouse tries to escape the clutches of a pet cat named Mouse as the pair engage in the age-old game of cat and mouse .
Somersaulting away:
Cartoon characters:
1339
Tammy Abraham smashes Chelsea into the lead with a fierce drive into the top corner .
Manchester lad and England youth international, City's captain was a commanding presence at the heart of defence.
6 .
Bersant Celina:
6 .
Ruben Sammut plays the ball out in an excellent performance protecting the back four .
1340
Paul Pogba (Juventus) £75m .
Memphis Depay (PSV Eindhoven) £30m .
Dutchman reads out the names of Mats Hummels, Gareth Bale and Paul Pogba  among others .
1341
A coroner found that the care given by the midwife who assisted at the birth in 2012 was 'grossly inadequate' and may have contributed to the death of the baby.
1342
Adding to the performance, he trills his lips at the same time.
The comical clip shows the youngster lurching back and forth with the device almost touching the floor .
1343
'Gold upper eyelid implants have been used for decades for facial palsy,' says Saj Ataullah, a consultant oculoplastic surgeon at Manchester Royal Eye Hospital.
1344
Chelsea were forced to substitute Oscar during the derby against Arsenal after their creative midfielder suffered 'possible concussion' in the first half.
1345
Despite all the attention Wood (left) insists the 'real hero' in the situation is Boyd, who she calls a 'great mom' 'I can assure you that these girls are being strongly dealt with and appropriately punished.
1346
After taking the big race on the opening day of the Grand National festival, AP McCoy repeated the trick on Don Cossack to the delight of a huge Ladies’ day crowd.
1347
Facebook has come under fire after removing a video that shows Aboriginal women in a traditional ceremony because they were topless.
,
1348
But no action has yet been taken against Dr Kamleh.
He also claimed to have slept with a patient at the Mannum District Hospital in South Australia.
1349
‘For example, migraine products work faster while back pain products tend to be longer-lasting.’
Dr Van Tulleken says: ‘Some medicines are a waste of our hard-earned cash.
1350
The indictment alleges that Brimager murdered Baldelli (pictured), dismembered her body and disposed of her body parts in a remote jungle area .
1351
This was a kind of grenade consisting of a glass sphere filled with more than 1.5lbs (half a kilogram) of nitroglycerine, covered with an extremely sticky adhesive and encased in metal .
1352
On the other table, defending champion Mark Selby was locked in a tough battle with Anthony McGill in the opening second round match.
1353
He also worked as editor-in-chief of his student newspaper and chief executive of the Model United Nations.
'It was crazy,' he told DailyMail.com.
1354
A mobile phone recording of him playing music was shared online and the youngster now has nearly 25,000 Facebook fans.
1355
'I haven't needed to build up my confidence for this fight.
Quillin, meanwhile, believes the fight will just be another struggle he has to overcome.
1356
However Mr Grower stood by his comments, saying: 'Ukip is a racist party.'
He signed off his email with: 'That's why I'll be voting Ukip'
1357
A breakthrough was recently made in the development of clean hydrogen power.
The project is the latest attempt by Audi to produce more environmentally friendly fuels for its vehicles.
1358
'He had got out because I had left my gate open.
She added: 'I went all goosey when they told me they had Toby because I had really given up on him.
1359
Researchers from Oxford and Plymouth universities have also found that genes thought to be risk factors in cancer were present in the Neanderthal genome.
1360
Bayern Munich have an interest in Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic but are unlikely to make a move until January.
1361
The remains of the boat will eventually be removed from the water, studied, dismantled and taken to a landfill.
1362
The New York Police Department's Internal Affairs Bureau is investigating the incident after the footage was posted online involving Detective Patrick Cherry.
1363
'He was 80 years old at the time and just wanted to help someone else realize his dream.'
Liz has documented her travels in a series of envy inducing photographs.
1364
@cierane tweeted: 'The fact that black students at Duke pay $60,000 a year and constantly feel unsafe on campus is ridiculous.'
Race issues:
1365
Wallenda was the oldest daughter of high wire walker Karl Wallenda and grandmother of daredevil performer Nik Wallenda.
Karl Wallenda fell to his death in 1978.
1366
The Fire Brigade Union say the practice is irresponsible and dangerous and becoming more common .
1367
Prime Minister David Cameron, pictured campaigning in Chester today, warned an SNP-Labour deal would be a 'match made in hell' for the British economy .
1368
She has won widespread praise for her charity work, dedication to attending royal functions around the country and emergence as a style icon for older women.
1369
WELBECK:
But I scored the goal, a big goal to get us through to the semi-final.
I know they’ve got players with Premier League experience.
1370
Mr Johnson said that Labour could not take power without the support of the SNP .
Mr Johnson insisted the Conservative attacks on the SNP were not risking the union.
1371
Jack Wilshere became embroiled in his third smoking controversy in 15 months after a picture emerged of the Arsenal midfielder holding a shisha pipe at a nightclub in February.
1372
If untreated, it can lead to fertility problems and increased risk of contracting STIs such as gonorrhoea and chlamydia.
1373
'Aldi then failed the legal and fairness test, but now in a submission to the Productivity Commission it is seeking again to scrap the same safeguards.
1374
Professor Warren, based at the University of Aberystwyth, Wales, said the avocado tree displays 'unique flowering behaviour'.
1375
It also found that one in five divorcees who stop work this year will retire with debts to drag down their disposable income and their lifestyles.
1376
Healthy living:
Photos of Stone cooking and gardening with Hudson feature throughout the book, which the chef has dedicated to his eldest son.
1377
The previous record is reported to set by a 5,000m-long kite made by craftsmen in Weifang in eastern China last spring.
1378
Tottenham are ready to grant Emmanuel Adebayor a free transfer, in an attempt to finally get the striker off their wage bill.
1379
Luis Suarez puts the ball through David Luiz's legs before scoring his second goal for Barcelona .
'I had to nutmeg Luiz twice because there was nothing else I could do.'
1380
Because bones were found in the ossuaries, it could be argued that there was no bodily resurrection (portrayed in this tapestry) which is the belief of more traditional Christians, while others accept the event was spiritual .
1381
Former Commons public accounts committee chairman Margaret Hodge, who investigated tax avoidance by public officials three years ago, said NHS trusts should be ‘hauled’ before MPs to be held to account.
1382
The Colombia international came close to joining AC Milan in January but the club failed to agree a fee.
United are looking to add two strikers this summer.
1383
On their wedding night Chaplin was said to have told friends that the marriage was a better option than prison.
She has said she regretted it in later life.
1384
Isis leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has been seriously injured in an air strike and is no longer in control of the terrorist group, according to an Iraqi source.
1385
In other competitions it's difficult to believe that the top team can lose four, five, six, seven matches.
Mourinho will hope Chelsea are not among them at Loftus Road.
1386
Required yoga poses include the ‘side crow’, where the stand-in must balance on his or her forearms.
The fee for the body double is set at just £500.
1387
But the scammer insists he does not have enough money to pay what he has been ordered to .
Jabeth and five others were also jailed for being involved in the scam.
1388
The same had happened in England and I insisted: ‘Again?’
The Uruguayan has been in superb form for Barcelona since joining the club from Liverpool in the summer .
1389
Luke Stanwick, 30, is fighting for his life in a medically-induced coma and may never walk again after the 'horrendous' accident in Portugal.
On the post, Sean Board wrote: 'I worked on relief with Luke.
1390
Laura Barbour, defending, said she had been instructed the reason Greaves had the images on his computer was because he was conducting an investigation on the 'Illuminati'.
1391
Aldo makes the eighth defence of his belt against McGregor in Las Vegas on July 11.
'He can't hide the fact he doesn't want the belt in his presence.'
1392
As a result, rain got into the property causing ceilings to collapse .
A back view of the property shows how the garden was left looking like a rubbish tip while the house had no roof.
1393
Nathan will join fellow Brazilians Willian, Ramires, Filipe Luis and Oscar (pictured) at Stamford Bridge .
1394
And Ukrainian forward Yarmolenko is emerging as a realistic target for the White Hart Lane club.
Tottenham are also keen on Everton winger Kevin Mirallas.
1395
That was the signal for Hock to enter the fray but Salford turned the tables with two tries either side of the break from Niall Evalds to retake the lead.
1396
She suggested that showing the film on campus could incite viewers to violence against Muslims.
Instead of American Sniper, the school planned to show the PG-rated Paddington .
1397
It brings to an end the eleventh series of the popular BBC weekly amateur cooking contest.
Kim Woodward is the first woman to be appointed head chef at the Savoy Grill .
1398
On-loan Chelsea striker Bamford's efforts at Middlesbrough were rewarded with the Championship award, as voted by Sky Bet Football League club managers, with his team-mates Grant Leadbitter and Lee Tomlin also in the second tier's top 10.
1399
Crawley are scrambling to avoid relegation from League One but Young was a good omen for the club as they were 2-0 up at half-time.
1400
Ms Peckham alleges that when he returned to Dubbo his appalling behaviour became worse than ever.
The politician has spoken out publicly, denying any allegations of violence.
1401
A senior Labour politician was under fire last night for attacking right to buy – while renting out a property she bought from a housing association.
1402
Video has emerged showing the horrific moment two French tourists set alight an Australian quokka .
As a result of the incident, both men lost their job.
1403
But the family team has developed the unusual new robot as a way to counter issues with cleaning the interior of a plane - which currently only takes place a few times a year.
1404
These amazing images reveal a kaleidoscope of colours in icy caves underneath a glacier.
when I got deeper inside the caves, I was amazed by the colours I saw.
1405
Defence lawyers say the pensioner only goes between 24 and 72 hours before he is rearrested after each court appearance.
1406
Provisional squad: Ospina, Monreal, Mertesacker, Gabriel, Bellerin, Coquelin, Cazorla, Ozil, Sanchez, Ramsey, Giroud, Szczesny, Walcott, Rosicky, Welbeck, Chambers, Gibbs, Flamini, Koscielny, Wilshere, Arteta, Diaby, Debuchy.
1407
A section of Silverstone's motor racing circuit roof was damaged on Sunday and Monday due to high winds .
Pringle says upcoming races will not be affected.
1408
Leeton Shire Mayor Paul Maytom said Ms Scott's mother spoke about her daughter's life and what a big part of the family she was.
Police escorted the young teacher as her casket left the venue .
1409
The Mindfulness for Travel series was developed for launch of the airline's new Airbus A380 service between London and San Francisco, known for its laid-back California vibes.
1410
But police said Friday his body had been discovered at Marine Park Golf Club, just two miles from his home.
1411
Biologists have studied the healing process at a molecular level using electron microscopes to examine skin as it repairs itself.
1412
'It's very pretty, and relatively classic, but that goes with the decor, with a little touch of the 1950s that recalls Marilyn Monroe or Queen Elizabeth's dress.'
1413
The DIY boat used by a pair of fisherman, who had to be rescued by a lifeboat crew.
But they did come home with a dogfish, two cod and three crabs.
1414
The house in the busy street where the Italian widow's body was found was the scene of a major police operation after officers were called initially to reports that a man had beheaded an animal.
1415
She joked that her pooch Dutchy wasn't a very good guard dog but stayed by her side after she was attacked .
'(But) I’m not going to live in fear because of one guy.
1416
Proof:
Experts believe the wandering 'Wild Woman' was found lurking in the remote region of Ochamchir in the Republic of Abkhazia.
Evidence:
1417
Speaking through an intepreter, he claimed he had seen Mr Bretti at the site that day and his older rival had beckoned him to follow afterwards.
1418
With Villa offering no threat, the England international was able to engage cruise control.
Flitted in and out of the game, some nice moments but times when he disappeared – 6.5 .
1419
The company asked for its name to be taken off the letter, tweeting: 'Our Sales Director did not sign the letter in support of the Conservative Party.
1420
'We are powerful enough to be able to test these propositions without putting ourselves at risk,' he said, citing his overtures to Cuba and Myanmar as other examples of his approach.
1421
Security officers were out in force at Los Angeles International Airport on Saturday, allegedly after officials found out ISIS called for attacks on uniformed personnel as part of a possible terror plot.
1422
The sculpture is readied for its big unveiling at Westfield Stratford City shopping centre .
A pair of police sniffer dogs loved the sculpture but shoppers looked baffled .
1423
'I'm happy to be part of the Jamaican team for the IAAF / BTC World Relays in the Bahamas.
The full Jamaican team list for the competition will be announced shortly.
1424
Broad revealed that a chat with new bowling coach Ottis Gibson and a change of technique led him to add 10 miles per hour to his bowling overnight and look back to his best.
1425
McCoy was congratulated by fellow jockeys as he prepared for the in the Handicap Hurdle .
McCoy (second right) has previously said 'shoot me if I ride professionally again'
1426
'Everyone has their philosophy and I think Jurgen Klopp has proved that he's top-level and can teach a lot.'
Maybe he is going to go abroad and see how it goes there.
1427
Ms Brown eventually told Ms Knight about Miss O'Connell – and was amazed when her partner welcomed the idea of a three-way relationship.
1428
After Tripathi was wrongly identified by Reddit commentators (the student was, in fact, found dead in a  Rhode Island river on April 23 after committing suicide), an apology was issued to his family.
1429
Police say that they questioned the husband extensively but believe his story and have not filed charges against him.
But no charges have been filed against him .
1430
A week later Mr Bryan turned up the at the Naked Treaties store, she said, and asked if he cancelled his ticket back to the UK he had booked for the next day, would she give him a job scrubbing dishes.
1431
Footage shows the tabby producing a range of unusual gurgling noises as she is petted.
Gibberish: When her back is rubbed, she lets out a string of gobbledygook sounds .
1432
A troll called 'fatalsplash' then accused Alexis of being a 'gold digger' who didn't have to work .
'Must be nice getting s*** free in life and not have to work for it,' he posted.
1433
Sakho was replaced by Kolo Toure, who partnered Dejan Lovren in a threadbare four-man defence with Emre Can and Martin Skrtel already unavailable.
1434
Following an exhaustive search, he was found drowned in a lake a month later .
WSB-TV reported the only thing missing from Nash's home was a 9mm handgun with a single clip.
1435
She died five days later.
But when she was told she would respond well to chemotherapy and had a good prospect of survival, she changed her mind.
1436
‘Boxing is the best sport because it teaches you about life,’ he says.
He describes Pacquiao as a reckless fighter, citing his shocking KO by Juan Manuel Marquez as proof.
1437
She's been left with two black eyes and bruising .
Neither the tyre shop or their landlord JP Supplies are accepting responsibility for fixing the broken manhole.
1438
Ms Monaghan told Daily Mail Australia.
Her family is able to be close by to Venessa as she receives her cancer treatment thanks to Childhood Cancer Support .
1439
One of the biggest hurdles Airbnb hosts are currently facing is the lack of internet access across the island .
Mr Kuehne said Cuban and US authorities have welcomed Airbnb’s expansion.
1440
A man  with bandages wrapped around his face stormed into a bank in a coastal town before fleeing with a 'significant' amount of cash in a bizarre robbery, police have revealed.
1441
Moving onto the eyes, Rolly says: 'When putting on your [false lashes], make sure that you bend the lashes before you apply the glue.
1442
Mr Miliband said as Labour leader he used to use an iPhone, but gave it up for a BlackBerry because he spent too much time reading tweets and political commentary .
1443
When I see him on telly, I sweat a lot and become anxious.
'What's unusual in this case is that Mr Howarth appears not to have been in Mr Farage's presence, only to have seen him on the television.'
1444
‘Nico didn’t try.
‘Ultimately this is Formula One,’ added Hamilton.
One asked if he was ‘crying’ – by which the questioner meant moaning or being a poor loser.
1445
March's friend Maia Madison, a writer and actress, told Page Six that March arrived 'sobbing uncontrollably' at her home just after Thanksgiving after finding out about the affair.
1446
Schurrle and Yorke attended a charity ball to raise money for Hamburg Children's Hospital .
The pair pose as they attended the event ahead of Wolfsburg 2-0 win against Hamburg .
1447
It said the scale of the problem has increased over the past three years and the flow of foreign fighters 'is higher than it has ever been historically.'
1448
Top-ranked Serena Williams overcame a stiff challenge in the opening set for a 7-6 (5), 6-2 win over Camila Giorgi on Saturday to give the United States a 1-0 lead over Italy in a Fed Cup World Group playoff.
1449
Since marrying King Felipe of Spain in 2004, Queen Letizia has continued to regularly up the style stakes.
Spain's Queen Letizia attended a conference for rare childhood diseases in Barcelona .
1450
Former Playboy model Georgina Gosden, 25, is facing charges for punching two women in the face at a pub .
Georgina Gosden has pleaded not guilty to the common assault charges.
1451
The Loch Ness Monster has been the subject of many sightings in the Scottish Highlands.
But the monster rose and chased the man . snapping at his heels.
1452
The succulent globe artichoke, meanwhile, has been used in Chinese medicine for millennia as a digestive cleanser.
1453
Violet's new face allows her to be just as expressive as any of the other children her age .
Even with the surgery, Taylor said Violet 'doesn't see herself as different'.
1454
'I am a goalie coach first and foremost.
Andersson made 130 appearances for the club between 2004 and 2009 and also spent a season with Scottish club Hibernian during a 22-year playing career.
1455
'At home at it is different, when the City supporters are really loud in these games, it sometimes gives me goose bumps when they sing my name.'
1456
The findings come after the general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers said he was dubious about using technology as a teaching aid in non-IT classes.
1457
At a recent fundraiser covered by local station WCVB, JP said he has now recovered enough to live a relatively normal life.
1458
Mr Whitehead said he could no longer carry on 'in good conscience'.
It is another hammer blow to Tory pretensions in the north of England'.
1459
The Post also reported that one female juror selected was a plumber who was diagnosed with ADHD.
Samour has said it's not an unusual amount of time for a trial this complex.
1460
The incident has only now come to light after a former student told the victim's mother, reports WAFB.
The mother also reported the texts to the school's administration.
1461
Instead, the vlogger wanted to discover 'how people feel about themselves when someone who is classified as "lesser" than them on society's class ladder offers them money".
1462
Thistle manager Alan Archibald was forced into one change with forward Kallum Higginbotham coming in for the injured Kris Doolan but he was mostly a spectator as the Firhill defence was forced to withstand an early Hoops' barrage.
1463
Suddenly the skier can be seen falling to the floor as heavy snow closes in around him and in a matter of moments he is completely submerged.
1464
He also claims the video, which appears on YouTube, has been edited to make it appear the old man was deliberately targeted when this was not the case.
1465
But he's not a player in my squad now, or a player I'm waiting for.
While another branch is focused more closely on producing players who might one day represent the club.
1466
Her husband was taken into custody without incident, Childs said, and police weren't looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths.
1467
Turkish skipper Arda Turan is pictured inside the plane's cockpit during the flight in breach of aviation rules after his side's 2-1 victory in an international friendly against Luxembourg .
1468
The pair said they believed it would be unjust to kill them.
This painting was signed by Myuran Sukumaran shortly after he was informed he had three days to live .
1469
A six-month old baby with severe burns on her face was among traumatised survivors of another sea rescue near Italy's Lampedusa Island on Friday (file photo)
1470
'Having educated myself about the fur industry, it breaks my heart to think people allow such cruelty to continue by buying fur products.'
1471
In an interview with Fox13, he said that he had noticed Kevin was becoming withdrawn and no longer wanted to take part in family activities.
1472
A police source said that she was talked into climbing to safety 'so she could be with her daughter', according to the New York Daily News.
1473
James McClean's reaction said it all.
Much like against Brentford, Fulham's paying customers did not shirk away from telling him exactly what they thought.
1474
Knight's attorney said he believes Mayweather will bail the rap mogul out when he wins on Saturday .
And we believe that will happen.'
1475
Manchester United will offer Robin van Persie £5million to quit the club this summer .
Louis van Gaal explained at his press conference on Friday that Van Persie is not yet fit enough to play .
1476
The idea of City fans changing allegiances was popular.
'Manchester is red!' - it's clear who the big winners were in the Manchester derby from this image .
1477
Dani Alves looks set to leave Barcelona this summer after his representative confirmed the Brazilian right-back had rejected the club's final contract offer.
1478
Injured quartet Franck Ribery, Mehdi Benatia, David Alaba and Arjen Robben were forced to watch on from the sidelines as the German giants bid to reach the Champions League semi-finals.
1479
Arnold Palmer defied his age and a shoulder injury to hit the ceremonial opening drive of the 79th Masters and provide the first storyline at Augusta National this year.
1480
'But, it is true, when I was a young kid I dreamed of playing in finals and it's nice to have won the Europa League and Super Cup, and won a final against Real Madrid, but hopefully I can achieve much more now.
1481
Stephanie Scott (fourth from left) was supposed to have her own wedding on Saturday but guests paid tribute to her instead at a memorial service .
1482
'And I hope that today's outcome reinforces a message that corrupt officers will be discovered and brought before the courts where appropriate.’
1483
He said: ‘Capturing this footage was really special.
A commanding rhino appears to almost kiss the surface of the water after it purses its lips and takes a drink .
1484
She added the incident left her 'completely numb'.
After Ms Tipper put up missing dog posters, Molly was identified by a dog walker three days after going missing.
1485
He has been put on compassionate leave from his post, after the MoD considered suspending him, a source has said.
The MoD declined to comment.
1486
Laptops, mobile phones and books were also seized in a joint investigation with Lancashire police known as Operation Cask.
You were involved in criminality.'
1487
'I won't talk about the referee, but I think referees from minor leagues should not be in charge of this kind of game,' Miranda told AS.
1488
Argentine Bosch raises his arms aloft after being entrusted with the final kick of the game .
Racing are a team who, in their early years, would play wearing berets and bow ties.
1489
After escaping, the teenager then reported the matter to police and was promptly arrested on suspicion of grooming.
He has been bailed while police investigate.
1490
An engineering survey showed that the space was in fact unable to become a car park - but the advent of war meant that it was needed as an air raid shelter.
1491
Initial police reports indicated the fall was an accident but authorities are investigating the possibility that Mogni was robbed.
1492
Borini hasn't played since he came off the bench as Liverpool beat Bolton in their first FA Cup replay of the year back in January while Jones hasn't appeared for the first team since Boxing Day.
1493
The West Ham star has had a fine debut season in the Premier League, with a number of big clubs circling him for a possible summer move.
1494
Pele unofficially scored 1088 goals for Santos and is widely regarded as the best player of all-time .
230* Wayne Rooney (2004-present)
1495
He suggested they should follow the example of authors such as John Green and ‘write up for children, not down to them’.
1496
In laboratory tests, they prompted inactive mouse and human stem cells to regenerate myelin, the protective insulation-like coating around nerve fibres that is destroyed by the disease.
1497
Evian took a 18th-minute lead through Dany Nounkeu, Daniel Wass having wasted an earlier chance to put them in front from the penalty spot, but they had to rely on an Adrien Thomasson equaliser 12 minutes from time to earn a share of the spoils.
1498
'It's good to have him back.
It's a great coup for us, it just shows we do some things right.'
'There are some aspects of his game he needs to step up.
1499
Poultry producers and scientists had been hoping warmer weather would knock down the deadly bird flu virus.
But despite these measures, the system doesn't always work.
1500
He said Mr Houli is a 'delightful man'.
'I had the pleasure of attending the Richmond Football Club function on Friday night,' Mr Burns said.
1501
The array of glittering precious stones on display at the event in Geneva on May 13 is blinding.
 The ring is expected to sell for some £2 - 2.7million)
1502
Yesterday British politicians demanded an urgent investigation, saying the evidence was ‘appalling’ and appeared to show ‘effectively slave labour producing food in 2015’.
1503
'For me, there's not a player of the same age near him.'
Players like myself, Nathaniel Chalobah and Nathan Redmond experienced tournament football and won it with the Under 17s and that should help massively.
'It can bring a calming influence to the group, we will be able to give a few words of advice here and there and give people an idea of what to expect.'
1504
We woke up really early to see the site where the crucifixion of Jesus Christ took place,' she wrote.
The insider described the ceremony as 'so special'.
1505
The new study highlights the areas in Washington, Oregon and California that would require more time to successfully evacuate for higher ground in the case of the next natural disaster.
1506
After killing Pearce, Presley said he decided he did not want to continue killing and tried to go back to a career in acting, before getting arrested for jumping a turnstile .
1507
Guardiola's underwear were on show after the Bayern boss managed to rip a small hole in his trousers .
1508
The company’s website states that it carries out genetic testing for a range of diseases including cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anaemia.
1509
Very severe.
'It's always a big discussion.
Arsenal face Liverpool on Saturday in a crucial clash for both sides for the Champions League places .
1510
Final holiday: Brain cancer sufferer Sara Martin, from Pennsylvania, is being driven to Florida today after she uttered the word 'Florida' following weeks of not speaking.
1511
However, Verifone claimed sensitive payment information or personally identifiable information cannot be captured, even though the password has become known over the years.
1512
Take a leaf out of Pippa's stylish and practical book, and click right to snap them up.
At the party, Pippa revealed that she is having a stab at a new career - this time as a dress designer.
1513
Experts say the modified version of the vaccination is worth waiting for.
World health authorities realised that and modified the vaccine to be used in Australia this winter.
1514
Brazilian football clubs have been put on alert after a dengue fever outbreak .
Corinthians striker Paolo Guerrero is one of three players that have already been diagnosed .
1515
It seems Aiken picks his paramours from among men who friend him on Facebook.
'And then I’ll look at the pictures.'
Gay men are flighty as hell,' Aiken said.
1516
Above, a gravestone at Honolulu's National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, marking the resting place of seven unknown Americans who died on board the USS Oklahoma .
1517
And on launching the campaign, Harewood said: 'What it brilliantly illustrates is that if you don't register to vote, you are quite literally taking all the vibrancy we have in our community off the table .
1518
'The two garments I currently get the most positive responses to are my Mewseum Visit Dress from ModCloth and my PacMan-themed circle skirt.
1519
His bad boy image is more for me.'
'I know I’m seven years younger than her but she should dress more fun,' said Miss Bredo (left).
1520
Numbers are expected to swell ahead of an upcoming cultural festival in nearby Hilo, according to Hawaii News Now.
The first was built in the late 1960s.
1521
Floyd at 38 is doing things he didn't do in the past.
'The 2015 version of Manny is more mature, smarter and less reckless than the 2010 version,' said Roach.
1522
It aims to improve the current understanding of the asteroid environment and yield key information for future astronauts exploring an asteroid.
1523
Five days later, the woman took a fatal overdose of prescription tablets .
After she reported the alleged attack, the woman was examined and Mansouri’s DNA was discovered.
1524
At over 50 locations around the US and Canada, the Kimpton Hotel chain offers a special service for those feeling a bit lonely while travelling.
1525
Subs not used: Roos, Lingard, Whitbread, Hanson.
They face an almighty task to escape relegation, made all the harder when Martin linked up with Russell to score.
1526
Meanwhile, Miguel Angel Gil Marin, CEO, added: ‘It's a very important step for the club in their effort to build a global leading brand, which will help us maintain the sporting competitiveness of the past years and consolidate among the first clubs of football in the world.’
1527
His images depict people interacting with the environment and enjoying themselves in the outdoors.
'I aim to create a sense of wonder in each of my pieces.
1528
He chose Yale.
'I'm torn because each school offers something different, and there are so many different things I'm looking for,' he said.
1529
With Lewis Hamilton yet to sign his new contract as he negotiates the finer details with Mercedes, it has been suggested that the 30-year-old will replace Raikkonen at Ferrari for next season.
1530
The announcement was made on Wednesday after a meeting with Brazilian taekwondo officials.
Silva is a taekwondo ambassador and a black belt in the sport.
1531
Dele Alli has set his sights on playing for England Under 20s at the Toulon Tournament next month .
'But it wouldn't have been able to do it without my team-mates.'
1532
In Italy, Corriere dello Sport look at a familiar topic for English fans: the race for the Champions League, with a focus on Roma and Napoli.
1533
Geoff was first diagnosed with diabetes in 2003.
Step three was transforming Geoff into a diabetes champion, so he could convince others to turn their lives around.
1534
Provisional squad: Heaton, Gilks, Mee, Duff, Shackell, Keane, Reid, Ward, Trippier, Barnes, Wallace, Arfield, Jones, Boyd, Kightly, Vokes, Jutkiewicz, Ings, Sordell.
1535
The church is said to be the site of child sex attacks perpetrated by now-deceased convicted paedophile Father Kevin O'Donnell.
1536
Scroll down for video .
 Mr Barbour says he finds photography as an unlikely escape from a recently diagnosed illness .
St Georges Hall in Liverpool.
1537
Wright, who had seven seasons at Arsenal and broke every scoring record in the book, will hand over McCoy’s trophy before travelling back into London to present his BBC5Live radio phone in.
1538
It was also this year Emma considered leaving the Harry Potter franchise.
She was also named Hollywood's highest paid female star having earned an estimated £19m aged just 19.
1539
Louis van Gaal's (right) greatest achievement in football is the making of Jose Mourinho, feels Gary Neville .
1540
Nearly 90 years after she would have graduated from high school, a 103-year-old Wisconsin woman finally got her diploma.
School of life:
1541
The Italian league is of a high standard.'
Tevez won the Champions League with United in 2008, and believes Juventus can match that achievement .
1542
Back at home: Cody's owner Tracey Hannant spoke of the moment he was rescued.
She plans to take Cody to Erith fire station when he is fully recovered, to thank the 'amazing' firefighters in person.
1543
She works as a fitness instructor but has 'become active again' as a model in the past three years.
Bouris will return to court again in August.
1544
Eventually the police were able to arrest Ali after he lost control of the car as he tried to swerve around a line of traffic and got stuck between a bollard and the front of a shop.
1545
Instead of going to work in an office, the Brisbane gamer known only as Bonnie Doll starts up her Xbox and goes on a killing spree with followers of her live stream.
1546
Such accusations are completely foreign to friend Mohamed Elrayah, who had gotten the 'I'm chilling' years after the two lost touch.
1547
The gun was found to be locked with loose wire that was not wrapped enough when police recovered it from the scene .
He's definitely loaded.'
1548
'I am going to miss you my buddy there wasn't one day we never laughed together thank you for spending a lot of your life with me,' posted one friend .
1549
Arsenal's defender has gone from strength to strength following £16million move from Southampton in 2014 .
It’s my favourite position.’
1550
Labour dismissed the criticism and said journalists were barred out of respect to worshippers.
Mr Cameron also visited the Golden Temple in Amritsar in 2013.
1551
It took two hours for police, paramedics and the Lithgow Volunteer Rescue Squad to rescue her (file photo)
1552
Good Samaritans:
Cheever said it was insulting to her as a licensed cook that the city of San Antonio was treating her as a danger to the community.
1553
EE claims the plan is ill thought out and will make an already struggling industry suffer .
Separately, each phone company will apply an ‘access charge’ for putting people through.
1554
The best I could be.'
Going says she had begun to call him numerous times, but always hung up the phone.
After 16 years Davion was finally home.
1555
Deputy finance minister Dimitris Mardas (pictured) said that Greece will in fact make the payment on time .
Athens has not received bailout funds since August last year .
1556
A top two per cent score on an IQ test will qualify you to join Mensa - or you can provide evidence that you are already in the top two per cent of the population.
1557
But the survey of 1,830 people also showed that 44 per cent believed Camilla was well prepared to be the wife of the reigning monarch, 13 per cent thought she was badly prepared and the remainder had no opinion or did not know.
1558
Some degree of prosopagnosia is often found in children with autism and Asperger's Syndrome.
She said: 'It  is a cognitive condition characterised by an impairment in face recognition.
1559
Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti has said Rodriguez will start Sunday's La Liga match at the Santiago Bernabeu.
1560
Now it has been reported that the Korean tech giant will be the main supplier of the A9 chips in Apple's upcoming iPhone range.
1561
After the shocking incident sheriffs from the Umatilla Sheriff's office quickly covered him up and.bundled him back to his cell.
1562
Lichtsteiner was part of the Juventus team that won 1-0 in Turin last week against Monaco in the Champions League quarter-final first leg.
1563
The man drops down on one knee as he proposes to his girlfriend inside a McDonald's restaurant .
The couple then engage in a passionate embrace by the food counter.
1564
Arnold's body was found months after her disappearance in a shallow grave in a rural area near Williston, North Dakota.
1565
With Bulger's reign of terror throughout the city from the 1970's, Davis said it was too early to relive such atrocities.
1566
An arbitration panel has ruled that owner Assem Allam can make another application to change the name.
That’s the kind of man he is so we have to respect those views.
1567
It is understood that the 27 year-old Scot has known about Mauresmo' s pregnancy for a number of weeks, but he was anyway planning on linking up with Bjorkman – the former world singles No 4 and doubles No 1 – prior to that.
1568
He received between 50 and 60 stitches after the incident but the skate luckily missed his eye, according to MLive.
1569
The Wheel concept features washing balls inside the canisters, designed to save water and improve washing .
1570
Come and discover: The area is unspoiled, but it is also exceedingly well set-up for outdoor pursuits .
Ryanair (0871 246 0000, www.ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Kaunas from £49 return.
1571
The Frenchman been continuing his latest recovery while playing for Arsenal Under 21s against Reading .
He has made just 22 appearances in four seasons.
1572
However, rather than seeking professional medical help, he met a medical student who agreed to perform the first injections.
Source: Urology Annals .
1573
The Nabatean Tomb in Madain Saleh is located in the northwestern region of the Arabian peninsula, in the middle of a vast desert landscape .
1574
His act of kindness was seen by Samantha-Jayne Brady, who stopped them to take a picture which she then posted on Facebook.
Good people still exist.'
1575
Complex:
Problems:
Destructive:
The helmet is so advanced that it allows pilots to share information with other F-35 jets nearby .
Military force:
1576
However, when Chinese officials investigated, they said they could find no trace of a spillage, leading some people to theorise that the villagers could have struck oil.
1577
Dortmund's ball-playing midfielder Gundogan has been watched extensively by United and has emerged as their primary target.
1578
Co-senior author Professor Benny Chain, of UCL, said: 'The number of HIV cells in the bloodstream is always relatively low, and our model shows that HIV spread through the bloodstream alone would not be enough to cause AIDS.
1579
Ms D'Argent recently filed a statement of claim at the County Court of Victoria to seek compensation for her injuries from the building owners' corporation and elevator service, Thyssenkrupp Elevator Australia.
1580
To make this process easier, developers in Boston have worked with global emergency response teams to create its One-Touch-911 app.
Calls can also be routed through a Wi-Fi network.
1581
But everyone else will have to pay tax on their worldwide income.'
Mr Miliband said on Twitter that 'we should all pay taxes by the same rules' ahead of his speech in Coventry .
1582
During the live leaders' TV debates Mr Farage said the NHS should not be treating foreigners with HIV.
Nick Clegg said the Ukip leader was an 'odious' man .
1583
The train's 542 passengers were taken by a rescue train to Grand Central Station in Manhattan, an MTA spokesman told Daily Mail Online.
1584
Morrison began his career at Manchester United, and was once compared to Paul Scholes by Sir Alex Ferguson.
1585
Mr Clegg thanked 'Go Ape' for having him this afternoon.
On current trends, becoming one of the five best selling cars in the UK would require sales of around 60,000.
1586
Kennedy said that the documentary helped convince lawmakers in Oregon stop a similar measure in that state, and was hoping it would have a similar effect in California.
1587
The head is commonly used in soups.
Rising incomes have allowed more consumers to indulge in exotic foods once considered exclusive delicacies for the rich.
1588
The NBC sketch show parodied the daytime CNN Newsroom, which turned into a series of let-downs when it emerged there was no footage for the stories they were covering.
1589
The rebels later bulldozed the palace - but the green flooring from Gaddafi's home is still visible in parts of the derelict site .
1590
Bartomeu, however, has reiterated the club's stance that Messi will always have a place at the Nou Camp.
'He has a place here until he decides to quit football.'
1591
Saurage took the reptile back to his park to join more than 400 other alligators.
He points out that alligators can run 22 miles per hour on land and 'you can't run that fast.'
1592
However, it remains to be seen whether De Gea and Valdes will be enjoying the rare English sun or the continuous Spanish sun next season with their futures less than certain.
1593
She asked jurors to convict Hernandez of murder, saying he was a calculated killer who committed a terrible crime and then spent three decades trying to hide from it.
1594
Research by the World Health Organisation suggests that at least one in 100 babies born in the UK could suffer learning and behavioural problems because of exposure to alcohol in the womb .
1595
Police insisted she have emergency treatment and took her to the same hospital as her daughter, where she refused to see doctors.
1596
The earthquake, which struck on Saturday, came at a busy time of year, with an estimated 300,000 foreign tourists in the country.
1597
'We are long overdue some ground improvements.
The Football Association are aware of the incident and will take appropriate action once they have their findings.
1598
Montpellier forward Lucas Barrios reacts after missing a penalty to put the visitors in the lead .
Subs: Tiene, Martin, Berigaud, Saihi, Bakar, Ligali .
1599
Hadas first came into contact with the NSPCC in the UK following a horrific ordeal where she was brought to the UK by sex traffickers.
1600
'When Detroit police pulled him out of the car he was already in panic mode … and they handcuffed him, and he's trying to tell them he can't breathe.
1601
Sessions include 20-25 minutes of spinning, followed by 45 minutes of yoga.
She says exercise, plus meditation, is her 'ultimate stress reliever'.
1602
Costa has scored 19 Premier League goals this season, including one in the 2-0 win against Arsenal in October.
Mourinho recently said every player has a price.
1603
I also felt that Arsenal could win the game, and win it well.
Poor technique.
It seems you only have to sign for Arsenal these days to be a legend.
1604
ZINC .
You can also find sources in tomatoes, olive oil, parsley and pepper.
RNI: 8.7mg per day and up to 14mg for menstruating women per day.
1605
The Advertiser also reported that the owner had only purchased the 1991 Ferrari 348 a week ago and it was uninsured.
1606
'But she struggled with the diagnosis of Asperger's and wanted more than anything to fit in.
She was a talented student with a depth of intelligence and capability beyond her years.'
1607
All Greenpeace activists aboard the rig are experienced climbers and say they don't plan to interfere with the ship's course .
We're on Shell's platform.
1608
Mr Manyang further said that he believes Ms Guode is innocent.
Victoria Ambulance said the children were taken to The Royal Children's hospital via air ambulance .
1609
Stella was born in Belgium and was raised there until she was 13 before she moved around the world .
Walking Marc Jacobs was pretty cool, too.
1610
The Jaguars, who are committed to playing one home game each year in London until 2015, have opened a competition for UK-based fans via nfluk.com, and the winner will announce the draft picks live on Sky Sports in the UK and the NFL Network in the United States.
1611
Patrick Vieira has the backing of Manchester City players to replace Manuel Pellegrini should the club sack the under-fire manager.
1612
Married to both George Harrison and Eric Clapton, model Pattie Boyd was one of the most envied women in the world.
He later wrote the song Something for her.
1613
The property in the Richmond area is said to have been crawling with rats, black widow spiders, dog feces and 300 bottles of urine.
1614
Mayweather Jnr continued his pre-fight preparations by doing a few lengths of a swimming pool .
Pacquiao took to the mountains as he prepares to take on Floyd Mayweather Jnr in May .
1615
Meanwhile, HavntSlept complained about the 'long grueling hours' dedicated to her baby before noting that she would have given her baby 'zero stars' if she could .
1616
In the documents, the unidentified prisoner says he was loaded into a police van after Gray on April 12, and apparently told investigators that he heard Gray 'banging against the walls' and 'intentionally trying to injure himself'.
1617
'Our volunteers have given up a lot of time and hard work to raise money for ANZAC Day but to have somebody come in and take that away is a low act.'
1618
Fans storm the pitch as the breakaway outfit celebrates a significant moment in their short history .
This is a football club that is built on the ambitions and beliefs of its supporters.
1619
Looking back she says she wishes she would have tuned in more to her mother's suffering and allowed her to end her treatment sooner.
1620
The next step for him is to become a vocal leader.
He is comfortable playing out of defence but he has to be careful not to overplay.
1621
I have already received an offer [for a new contract], although I can't say if I am happy or not [with it].
They told me they will call me to arrange the next one.'
1622
Meanwhile, images emerged today of Kim Jong-un apparently showing that he has hurt his wrist.
1623
The Two Face mask from Batman Forever is valued at, $1,500.
This Bat Puppet from Batman Forever is listed at $6,000 and it comes with the message: The Evil Setrakian'
1624
Now its Houston owner Safer Hassan has 30 days to get rid of the license plate '370H55V' - after the Texan Department for Motor Vehicles saw it spelled 'A**HOLE' upside-down.
1625
It's the second night out this week for the party girl, who was seen laughing and joking with friend Irene Forte at the launch party for new London restaurant, The Ivy Chelsea Garden, on Tuesday.
1626
Cannabis can kill cancer cells and shrink one of the most serious types of brain tumours, new advice reveals.
In the UK, THC is the active ingredient in the prescribed drug Sativex.
1627
The black and white cat had reportedly slept on the family veranda.
He believed the python had struggled to properly swallow the cat and died as a result.
1628
She also says she is not allowed to drive incase she nods off at the wheel.
Ultimately, the benefit system has to encourage people to take responsibility for themselves.'
1629
When he appeared in court on Friday, reporters were not allowed to take pictures or broadcast Doshay's image.
If convicted, Doshay faces up to 11 years in prison.
1630
And there was no way back for Sinfield's men when Ormsby's neat offload enabled substitute prop Roy Asotasi to score his first try for more than 12 months.
1631
She said she hadn't spoken up about the abuse until the day she heard he had been caught, and since then had attempted to take her own life.
1632
Police last week told Mrs Deegan that his death is one of four on the small island of Alderney being investigated as part of a probe into Dr Lyons.
She said: 'The police are not saying anything.
1633
Liverpool pair Herbie Kane and Trent Arnold have earned a recall after missing the Elite Round of qualifiers last month, in which England beat Romania, Norway and Slovenia to reach the finals.
1634
He will be back in Ligue 1 away against Nantes!'
Dimitri Payet has also had his ban reduced by one after an appeal to the French Olympic Committee (CNOSF)
1635
They got here after 5pm and the lifeguard was not on duty.
It later emerged she had a heart condition and had been warned not to swim in 'open water' by a cardiologist.
1636
I take him to win by unanimous decision.
Guardiola wore the top demanding justice for Jorge 'El Topo' Lopez who died in a car crash at the World Cup .
1637
Dating back to last year, the Wizards have won seven of eight away from home in the post-season.
Monta Ellis had 24 points for Dallas, which hosts Game 3 on Friday.
1638
Travel around the world by private jet .
Hoffman tells MailOnline Travel that exclusive access to private wine estates in France is a common request .
1639
After the extent of the decay was revealed, Mr Bowes instructed specialist dental negligence solicitors, the Dental Law Partnership, which secured a £30,000 payout following a two-year legal battle with Dr Crees.
1640
The top three nations in UEFA's rankings qualify for the Europa League, with England currently sitting third and West Ham topping the Barclays Premier League's Fair Play table.
1641
The priest allegedly favoured sexual role-play scenarios in which his lover played the disciple Judas Escariot, and had to atone for his betrayal of Jesus by becoming his slave.
1642
That result followed a devastating 2-1 home defeat by Manchester United last time out and Brendan Rodgers' side have fallen from two points off Champions League qualification to eight behind.
1643
Target:
The man asks her how many ISIS fighters she has killed so far, and she holds up four fingers while boasting '400'.
Propaganda:
Rumours:
1644
Mr. Thomsen also issued a warning over Greece's recent, weak economic performance.
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' (right) government has been talking with creditors since January .
1645
Meanwhile, thousands of people remain stranded in parts of New South Wales as emergency services begin to clean up after devastating weather smashed the state over three days.
1646
But they also yield results and there is high demand for places: the IATC, which charges £1,000 per month (more than twice the average Chinese urban worker’s wage) recently expanded, so it can treat 130 patients at any one time.
1647
Following the discovery of the baby's body police were called and officers arrested Martins on September 15, the day after she was discharged from hospital.
1648
Allen said that if it were true then Farrow would have kept a dark secret during their bitter custody battle 21 years ago to make him pay child support.
1649
Origi added that he thinks the long-term progress of Raheem Sterling means he is joining the right club .
In Belgium it was this way, and I can see it at Liverpool.'
1650
Visitation:
Reunion:
Tetzner and the four children she won in a custody battle last week pictured above on a visit in February 2014 .
1651
Despite scoring 13 goals and making eight assists in 32 appearances, Scholes believes the 24-year-old needs to be more ruthless to be compared with the world's best players.
1652
A shocking video emerged last week, showing ISIS militants using sledgehammers and AK-47 rifles to destroy walls and statues in Iraq's UNESCO World Heritage city of Hatra.
1653
'Since becoming a mama I’ve spent way too much time explaining myself and almost apologising for my decisions and I’ve decided that it has to stop.
1654
Likewise, the proposed tour would also have implications for Chelsea's South American contingent, including Oscar, Willian and Juan Cuadrado, ahead of the Copa America on June 11.
1655
But collectively we didn't perform well enough to get a victory.’
He’s got a big future at the football club.
He showed a lot of loyalty to Aston Villa.
1656
Tokyo researchers have proposed a laser system to attach to the ISS.
It would be used to shoot down pieces of debris in Earth orbit (artist's illustration shown).
1657
These shocking pictures show a group of young thugs shooting at each other and family homes in a reign of terror which has left an entire community terrified.
1658
Leverkusen says Spahic accepted responsibility for his actions and agreed to the termination of his contract, which was due to run to 2016.
1659
He earned around £40,000-a-week at Anfield.
Dossena has appeared 13 times for Orient this season but has found life tough in the third tier.
1660
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger also praised the mental strength of Coquelin after seeing his team record their eighth straight league win.
Overall he has contributed to the balance of the team.
1661
Gender queer:
Chameleon:
Grant says the female employee explained Grant was not let in because Grant was 'wearing see-through clothing'.
1662
Rios said that she doesn't think that women should be 'abused' and thinks they can make a 'great lawyer or doctor' but not a president of the country.
1663
Dawn also used to check under the loo seat every time she was about to use it, despite living in Scotland, which is not known for it's teeming serpent population .
1664
The firm, which uses some American spellings despite being based in Britain, details how it can help politicians on its website.
1665
Taliban henchman accused of murder CAN stay here: Man who 'killed governor's son' in Afghanistan wins right to stay in Britain on human rights grounds .
1666
There were no greyhound training facilities or other connections to the racing industry in the area, a police spokesperson said .
1667
Former Capitol Hill staffer Donny Ray Williams is disfigured from an acid attack that occurred years after he raped two women.
Williams' own attack occurred in 2013 as he walked down a Washington street.
1668
Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany insists that UEFA’s Financial Fair Play regulations protect elite clubs rather than helping teams avoid going bust.
1669
Leon Osman enjoys himself during training after helping Everton win their third game in a row on Saturday .
1670
Worst bit: Admitted SNP MPs would vote for full tax powers as soon as next year – coinciding with a dramatic slump in North Sea oil revenues.
1671
Police say the decision was made after experts agreed tranquilizers would not be effective and no portable corrals could hold the animals.
1672
Samp make the trip to Florence to take on Fiorentina also in fine fettle after winning their last four league games.
Atalanta will try to give Edy Reja his first victory when they host Torino.
1673
Many Britons have given up on their dream of owning a home amid high house prices and poor pay rises, research has found .
1674
The Hull manager says he was 'disappointed' that the pictures were published and that he was baffled that anyone would be interested.
1675
He’s aggressive too, which he showed with the way he played in the rugby league Grand Final here last year.
‘It makes teams a lot more confident to play positive footy.’
1676
These days we are more connected than ever, but that regularly pushes a potential partner further away.
1677
The 21-year-old Dutch international has played a starring role in PSV's Eredivisie title success this season.
'(Depay) is one of the biggest talents in Europe,' said De Boer on talkSPORT.
1678
Mourinho was given a tour of Wimbledon by former British No 1 Tim Henman (left)
The aura is very difficult to explain – you come in and you just feel it.'
1679
Klopp speaks to the players in training, shortly after making the announcement he would be leaving the club .
Bundesliga 2010-11, 2011-12 .
1680
They hope the technology will allow them to mitigate some of the worst impacts of climate change – but not everyone is convinced.
1681
Mr Malone mentioned coming to China to look for 'RiLi' a few times, but she said she feared meeting in person would ruin the relationship.
1682
In 2010, 2011 and 2012, according to Reuters, the Clinton . Foundation reported to the IRS that it received zero dollars from foreign and U.S. governments.
1683
'This is a massive job, must have cost a fortune since the cobbles are hard to cut and will totally change the appearance of the area.'
1684
David Messerschmitt (pictured with his wife Kim) was found dead in his DC hotel room in February.
Fingerprints were also found in the room.
1685
If there's someone who isn't scared to show her colourful side in these times of taupe and elephant breathe, it is celebrated interior designer Abigail Ahern.
1686
Nurse Victorino Chua wrote a long note in which he said he had 'a devil in me', Manchester Crown Court has heard .
My family will make history here in England.’
1687
Venus Williams shows her frustrations as she loses to Carla Suarez Navarro in the Miami Open last eight .
Williams said she had struggled to find consistency.
1688
Australian MP Andrew Robb bravely revealed one of the unusual methods he used for more a decade to stave of depression .
1689
Life-saving:
Violent:
Other images show him pointing a firearm at the camera or holding up wads of cash.
'So I can live a second chance,' he said.
1690
Paul Nungesser is suing Columbia University for allowing Emma Sulkowicz to parade the school and take campus-provided transport with her mattress in protest against him, calling him a rapist .
1691
, fans are planning to hold photographs of Loftus and Speight to mark the 15th anniversary since their deaths.
Fans mark the 15th anniversary of the death of the two fans who were murdered .
1692
The Miami-Dade Police Department set up a hidden camera to deal with the ongoing problem of luggage theft, and found workers rifling through checked bags both before they were loaded onto planes and once inside the aircraft's belly.
1693
Grand Canyon Skywalk, Arizona .
The Empire State Building's 86th floor is home to the highest outdoor observation in New York, offering thrilling views .
1694
The box-to-box Spaniard is evidence of the Dutchman's claims that given time to adapt to his methods, his players will succeed.
MANCHESTER UNITED - 6 .
1695
The oil exploration company claimed analysis of a well near Gatwick Airport suggested 100 billion barrels of oil lay beneath the Weald Basin, covering Surrey, Sussex, Hampshire and Kent.
1696
He said that at one point she fired at least two shots at the officers, and they returned fire, fatally wounding her.
'We just took off running,' she said.
1697
‘It’s only a small minority of people who mistreat animals, whereas the majority will watch the show and think they can give something back by giving a pet a home.
1698
In a further self-motivational message, Mr Miliband also wrote the words ‘negative’ and ‘positive’ connected by an arrow.
1699
It was David Shuff, who met Barker years ago when he brought his therapy dog to her retirement home, that finally reunited the one-time famous dancer with her videos.
She said the videos made her wish she could get out of bed and 'do it all over again'.
Barker said the videos made her wish she could get out of bed and 'do it all over again'
1700
The confusion and lack of trusted information can leave some women baffled as to how celebrities could ever do it, and others too afraid to even try.
1701
Family wiped out:
Horrified:
The local chief of police said his officers knew at once they will not found anyone alive inside the house .
1702
Balthazar King, who was down on the landing side of that fence, suffered broken ribs and a punctured lung but was showing good signs of recovery on Sunday.
1703
The content is currently being assessed.
Cole, pictured celebrating scoring a penalty in the FA Cup final in 2005, left Arsenal for Chelsea in 2006 .
1704
Maternity style can be a hard thing to get right.
Helen Flanagan, 24, looked uncharacteristically demure as she stepped out recently in a floral midi dress .
1705
Prosecutors asked for the maximum sentence, saying Spears made her son ill because she had a bizarre need for attention.
Spears did not testify at the trial.
1706
Reanne Evans, the 10-time ladies' snooker world champion, begins her bid to make history and reach the World Championship finals.
1707
But he has no issue with King becoming the club's new ruler.
One of the new board's first acts was to appoint Stuart McCall as interim boss until the end of the season.
1708
Last week, the Argentine president and ambassador Alicia Castro publicly attacked the UK Government's plan to boost defences on the South Atlantic islands.
1709
She is off the market: The 37-year-old actress at the Independent Spirit Awards in February .
Katic told TV Line she would be fine with the show ending if it needed to.
1710
The irony that she thinks that they are diversifying the student community in the name of feminism and multiculturalism is laughable.’
1711
Adam Pearson helped lead Hull to the Premier League and will be hoping he can do the same at Wednesday .
1712
‘Star has to have blood tests and liver function tests every week and she will be on anti rejection medication for the rest of her life.
1713
The 29-year-old former Dewsbury forward was handed the suspension by UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) after a sample taken in an out-of-competition test last November returned a positive test for growth hormone releasing factors.
1714
He is not expected to be fit in time for Sunday, however, and likely to be replaced at centre-half by Gabriel Paulista, who has started three times in the Barclays Premier League since he was signed in January from Villarreal.
1715
Some may also argue that while Liverpool lack a single focal point in attack, the group as a whole have picked up the slack.
9. CHELSEA - Diego Costa. 19.
1716
Spanish beauty Raquel Mauri, whom the Croatia international married in 2013, posted an insight into the pair's enviable lifestyle featuring a selfie of the two of them taking in some sun, surf and sand.
1717
An Indiegogo page  to raise money in support of police officer Michael Slager had $393 of a $5,000 goal on Thursday - the company told Daily Mail Online 'they don't judge' as long as content fits their terms of use .
1718
The Chancellor took to Twitter to hail the Henry the Hoover factory, writing: 'Great British products made here in Chard and exported around the world.'
1719
A match of this magnitude is what these two English coaches craved during years working together at Tottenham Hotspur, probably believing they would be united in battle.
1720
I didn't murder my mother.'
The new mother took baby Stella to court with her, who was born last month at a prison hospital .
Innocent:
1721
He won fame in the US after helping to convince Americans to pick their first black president in 2008 and then helped Barack Obama's re-election four years later.
1722
The test results are pending and Norman remains in custody on $100,000 bail.
Rodriguez-Solis was taken to hospital, where he was also declared dead .
1723
'It appears to be random or misguided,' Coleman said.
Lt Coleman told Daily Mail Online that Ms Berry and the father of her 12-year-old son appeared to be estranged.
1724
Builder Craig Phillips was 28 when he appeared on the first series of Big Brother back in 2000.
Welsh Sam is now a television star and suit model for a company called JR Events .
1725
Overseas: Cheteshwar Pujara (Ind), Aaron Finch (Aus), Kane Williamson (NZ), Glenn Maxwell (Aus, T20) Yorkshire captain Andrew Gale celebrates winning Division One at the end of the 2014 season .
1726
However, English sides are also monitoring his progress with Newcastle willing to listen to offers for a player who has one year left on contract.
1727
Once finished it was presented to self-confessed Game Of Thrones geek John Giovanazzi and installed in the toilet of the bar he runs in Glendale, California.
1728
Tourist David Meadwell shot this footage of the Changing of the Guard last week when the incident unfolded .
1729
On arrival, I found myself gaping at the sublime beauty of the place.
The lovely harbour of Fiskardo is a must-visit place for anyone staying on Kefalonia .
1730
An Australian couple who abandoned a boy born in a surrogacy deal in India were repeatedly told the child would be left stateless, new evidence shows (stock image)
1731
Smoke rises from the dairy factory hit by an air strike in Yemen's western port city of Houdieda today .
'One should not expect a sudden ground attack,' he reportedly added.
1732
The latest ONS figures showed that the number of murders and manslaughter cases in England and Wales has fallen to its lowest level for 38 years.
1733
Saba says more and more women are coming into the showroom .
Earlier this year, boxer Amir Khan posted a shot on Instagram of his Aventador.
1734
Marlborough ignored allegations against Koetters at the two previous schools he had worked at, the lawsuit claims.
Gilbert-Lurie was moved to another English class.
1735
On the ISS, the station is in constant freefall towards Earth as it orbits the planet - so the astronauts live in ‘zero-gravity’.
1736
David Alderson was found dead in an abandoned copper mine in January last year .
Mr Alderson's body was found at the Wheal Maid mine in Cornwall .
1737
Aston Villa attacker Gabriel Agbonlahor shows he pulls no punches where fitness is concerned .
1738
He told them his adoptive mother had carried out the beatings when he didn't know the answers to questions about the children’s book Pinocchio, which she had asked him to study as extra-curriculum homework.
1739
Kaliningrad, which has a population of just under 1million, plays an important role in the maintenance of the Russian Baltic fleet.
1740
Just 56 seconds were on the clock when the Brazilian goalkeeper stopped a certain goal.
Troy Deeney, who had 20 Championship goals before kick-off, partnered Ighalo up front.
1741
Last month, the family attracted attention over their lifestyle when they were photographed leaving a Mulberry store at Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, East London.
1742
The dashboard camera has captured the unnamed driver travelling along a Melbourne road when a red ute with P-plates quickly cuts into the lane to turn right at an intersection.
1743
Officers yelled three times for him to drop the gun, but instead he raised it and pointed it at them, she said.
She did not see the man turn the gun on himself.
1744
Tiffany Williams and Jessica Versey, both 19 and from Chester, Cheshire, became close friends during their treatment and went into remission around the same time.
1745
Former Chelsea midfielder Essien had a Range Rover Vogue stolen from outside his property in Surrey .
1746
Mayweather (left) appeared to take his training intensity to a new height before his meeting with Pacquiao .
'Don't make training easy,' Pacquiao said on Twitter.
1747
He claims to be sad he delayed travelling to Syria for so long.
Nine British medical students have travelled to Syria to work in hospitals in Islamic State-held areas.
1748
Snapchat's Sydney story - a compilation of videos people in the area have posted in the last day - also shows the soaking conditions endured by the Cronulla Sharks and South Sydney Rabbitohs.
1749
Since 2002, Benitez has won 12 trophies with Valencia, Liverpool, Inter Milan, Chelsea and Napoli.
Asked about his future he emphasised the need for change should he stay in Italy.
1750
Rasch told TeamSky.com: 'Chris was pretty banged up but showed real courage to finish the race and we'll assess his injuries overnight.
1751
The green-eyed cat was brought into the shelter after getting an inflamed respiratory tract infection .
1752
A report from earlier this month said that services took place at the residence on Duke Drive which also operated as Iglesia Internacional Jesus es el Rey Church with services presided by Daniel and Aracely Meza (both pictured above)
1753
The head coach has raised concerns about the character of the players after they lost a fifth straight Tyne-Wear derby last weekend.
1754
Their operation was uncovered by an investigator for high street chain Next, who bought clothes from the Facebook page and proved they were stolen.
1755
Neighbours described Mr Yeaman as king and generous while his friend John Fisher told ABC Radio he was a schizophrenic pensioner who enjoyed playing loud music.
1756
Now the pair have been joined on their trips by Miss Wong’s new dog, George.
Darcy is used to all forms of travel.
October 2013 - Brighton (120 miles)
1757
Subs not used: Kelly, Norwood, Akpan, Andersen .
Donaldson goes one-on-one with Federici, who was hoping to make amends for his mistake against Arsenal .
1758
'But the reality is that I’m fortunate that I’ve been working nonstop for a long time so it wasn’t as difficult a transition for us financially as it could have been.'
1759
He is now one of the co-directors of the hugely popular tour group.
For those who like to wake up to a nice view, each bedroom overlooks the beach .
1760
A Judge who fell asleep while a child abuse victim gave evidence and caused the trial to collapse has been reprimanded by his bosses .
1761
The majority are happy to work and play for him.
Txiki Begiristain (left) has failed to live up to his reputation, and Manchester City's recruitment has been poor .
1762
Ms Dickson had been taking the pill Clairette for three years and is now no longer allowed to use it as she cannot take anything with oestrogen in it, as it is 'too risky'.
1763
Thousands of chickens and other poultry have been culled following the outbreak of a highly contagious strain of bird flu in India.
1764
he said.
But more than a year later, Huguet learned that Donaldson hadn't sought counselling like he had promised and contacted the authorities.
1765
'She hung herself outside my window.'
For confidential help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or click here.
1766
Marcos Senna has also performed the Carrick role for the Spanish team with great success .
Van Gaal said recently: 'Michael Carrick is more or less a trainer-coach.
1767
New research from Reed.co.uk found that female applicants state their ‘anticipated salary’ as £19,900, on average, while men asked for £23,800.
1768
Pictured: an Hermes bag (left) and a Mulberry (right) The Handbag Clinic has opened in Chelsea (pictured) to cater to the needs of well-heeled clientele who want to restore their bags to their former glory .
1769
The researchers concluded that women would benefit from better access to information showing a range of normal vulval anatomy.
1770
Jesus Navas played a major role in Manchester City's two goals at the Etihad Stadium .
MARK NOBLE 5 – Overrun in midfield and was able to offer his team very little.
1771
In limbo: Vergara's attorney told People that the Modern Family star is content to leave the embryos frozen in storage 'indefinitely.'
A source for the publication added: 'Sofía insisted on it.
1772
The Weekend Australian went with 'the voice of our endless summers falls silent', while The Age simply had a picture of Benaud standing on a cricket field with the dates 1930-2015.
1773
Dodd tried to defend himself by saying that he was a long-standing fan of Liverpool .
‘He should be given a talking to and made to go on an awareness course or educating.’
1774
Sterling is stalling on a new £100,000-a-week contract offer, although he insists it has nothing to do with money and he will reassess at the end of the season.
1775
Kyran Wiltshire is pictured in action for MK Dons in their pre-season friendly against a Tottenham XI in 2013 .
1776
Balotelli pictured alongside Jose Enrique and other Liverpool squad members upon arriving at the memorial service at Anfield .
1777
The museum's chairman Sir Richard Lambert said Mr MacGregor had done an 'outstanding' job.
We respect his decision to move on, and want to support him in his new projects.
1778
Efe Obada has been signed by the Dallas Cowboys, despite playing just five games for the London Warriors.
'This is a dream,' Obada told NFLUK.com.
1779
Curvy Kate recently used their top ten finalists to spoof Victoria's Secret campaign of 'The Perfect Body', instead contesting the idea that there is a 'perfect body'.
1780
The South Korean ferry captain responsible for a sinking that killed more than 300 people has had his sentence increased to life in prison.
1781
But when I'm at school I'm like everyone else,' Rose said.
Though St Joseph as invited her back, she is now attending a public middle school in the Battle Creek area .
1782
Minutes later he was shot dead .
In 2011, bench warrants ordered deputies to bring him in, and Scott spent a night in jail when he was $7,500 behind.
1783
Blow for Cameron:
In another case, three Slovakian con artists raked in £1.2million by bringing 'fake mothers' to Britain to claim benefits falsely.
1784
Rickie Fowler has been dating bikini model Alexis Randock since 2014 and she caddied for him on Wednesday .
Lindsey Vonn - Tiger Woods .
1785
Manchester City appealed for offside but Murray's first-half goal stood on Monday night .
Will have to reassess his pre-match comment that City were still title contenders.
1786
Bob Giles, Dover Coastguard Watch Manager said: 'The couple were thrown into the water after their vessel capsized.
1787
Hip rolls, a Pilates move that targets the 'oblique' abdominal muscles around the waist.
The slim actress also works with a personal trainer, power-walking and jogging around her local park .
1788
‘She doesn’t seem to have been affected at all.’
The couple’s daughter, who witnessed the rescue said her parents had performed a miracle.
1789
But he insisted the 'the individuals were acting by themselves and are not representative of any religious, cultural or national group'.
1790
The documentary Going Clear alleges that church elders have a 'blackmail file' from Travolta's sessions with auditors that will stop him (pictured right with his wife Kelly Preston) and his family from leaving the church .
1791
With a lymphoma, the lymph nodes often grow slowly and may be there for months or years before they are noticed.
Abdominal pain or vomiting after drinking alcohol .
1792
Fabregas' strike sparked jubilant scenes in the away end at Loftus Road, putting Chelsea within touching distance of the Premier League title and delivering a cruel blow to QPR's survival hopes.
1793
A Western gray whale is shown .
The group is now estimated to be 150 strong and has been monitored by scientists from Russia and the US since the 1990s.
1794
Jackson returns to the UFC after two years with Bellator when he takes on Fabio Maldonado in Montreal on Saturday night.
My style is a brawl, a street fighter.
1795
Secret Service supervisor Xavier Morales, 48, has been placed on indefinite administrative leave after a female employee accused him of assaulting her at agency headquarters .
1796
According to the newspaper, if the child is a boy then 13 per cent of people would like him to be called James, with the second favourite name being Alexander.
1797
They both knew they were meant for each other.'
'Never been apart - together for ever and always in life and afterlife,' she wrote.
1798
Exiles centre Eoin Griffin is tackle by Sale powerhouse Sam Tuitupou .
Sale took further advantage of Cowan's absence to score their third try and Arscott's second.
1799
They say that the temperatures are likely too hot to allow reasonable amounts of star formation, which leads to the lower number of stars we observe in the cosmos today.
1800
However the BBC has confirmed that Top Gear's live world tour will go ahead next month, with the three original presenters at the helm.
1801
The ingenious floating Uros Islands in the middle of Lake Titicaca are made from totora reeds .
The port is the gateway to Puno's fascinating islands.
1802
The incident occurred Wednesday afternoon at  Alverta B. Gray Schultz Middle School in Hempstead.
McKenzie and her niece were arrested at the scene.
1803
Abril previously withdrew ahead of the original date of March 6 and has only fought three times since 2012.
I have spent 12 weeks away from my wife, family and home.
1804
'I didn't do anything to make myself thin but once I had three children I lost weight and now I'm 8st.
She once said: 'I’ve never had anything done to my face.
1805
Jonathan Brownlee poses with his gold medal on the podium having won the Gold Coast ITU race .
World champion Javier Gomez took third.
1806
Protesters opposing the construction of a $1.4billion telescope on a mountain in Hawaii they consider to be sacred were arrested after blocking a road leading to the site.
1807
Traffic was heavy at that hour because an unrelated wreck about a mile ahead that forced motorists to slow, Nease said.
Hospital officials said they were wrapping up clinical training for the year.
1808
Speedy re-sellers started earning bids for their purchases at up to ten times the retail price, including a $150 hammock for $799 and a $34 maxi dress for $202.50.
1809
And, it now appears the three-year-old cat belonging to Karl Lagerfeld is also the richest.
He also revealed that she has weekly manicures for her claws .
1810
Michael J from Michigan filmed his 11-month-old daughter Leighton in floods of tears before she was handed a French fry to lure over the family pup, Zayla.
1811
Amsterdam in the Netherlands is known for its great number of canals, and so even if you didn't know, you could understand why it is known as 'The Venice Of The North.'
1812
British world dressage champion Charlotte Dujardin won the Grand Prix at the World Cup in Las Vegas.
'But he was feeling much better and I had a really great ride.’
1813
Sofia then listed how she plans to change her life saying: 'Any rude, offensive or explicit comment won't be deleted or blocked.
Touching:
1814
Michael Carrick has been impressive form since returning from injury for Manchester United .
1815
Researchers believe that the spread of our distant human ancestors, the hominins, had been halted by colder and drier temperatures.
1816
The ‘big two’ of record-breaking Jimmy Anderson and Stuart Broad will both play despite a demanding first Test while Jonathan Trott, rightly, carries on as opener with Cook despite his two failures on his return to the side in Antigua.
1817
Gave Austin too much space for his strike and looked a little rusty after his spell out.
Kieran Clark 6 .
Gabriel Agbonlahor 7.5 .
Bobby Zamora 6.5 .
1818
Baines hailed the 'unbelievable strength and character' of the children at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital .
1819
When pressed in an interview with Sky News the Chancellor refused to rule out making further cuts for Britain's top earners, instead saying the issue was 'not a priority'.
1820
Mr Hussen told The Times yesterday that he felt ashamed to have been at the flag-burning rally.
Asked why he was pictured at the front of the mob, he said: ‘The crowd pushed me.
1821
The so-called 'blood moon' could be seen by billions of people across the western U.S., Canada and Australia.
The next one will be visible from Europe.
1822
The lawsuit was filed after the MTA notified the group in August that it would display three of four proposed posters but not an ad with the quote 'Killing Jews is Worship that draws us close to Allah' because it could incite violence.
1823
Ms Hines said she and her husband Marcus Hines were very worried about Noah, but tests showed he was healthy.
Ms Hines is now 30 and has been seizure-free for two years.
1824
The woman's body was found at Derby Motor Boat Club in Sawley on the River Trent (pictured)
A 65-year-old man has been arrested and released on bail in relation to the woman's death .
1825
Pep Guardiola will be reintroduced to Barcelona in the Champions League semi-finals .
'It will be a very special game for me,' he said after the teams were drawn to face each other.
1826
Brendan Rodgers has criticised Raheem Sterling’s advisor, suggesting that the player is being manipulated by outside forces and that he would be inclined to stay at Liverpool if left to make a decision alone.
1827
Above, a stock image of a Blacktip shark, one of the species of shark thought to be seen in the pictures taken Thursday near Sebastian Inlet .
1828
But Mourinho insists his midfield twosome will play at Loftus Road on Sunday.
It doesn't make sense to think about some games (Arsenal and Manchester United) and not about others.
1829
The wartime letters and a photograph of Sergeant William.S. Marks an ANZAC veteran who served in the Australian armed forces at Gallipoli .
1830
He was eventually arrested during a raid on his five-bedroom house after a major investigation into the supply of various drugs in the North of England, which culminated in the seizure of £15million of cocaine and a haul of heroin.
1831
Amanda explained for a long time she blamed herself because he 'came on strong' and she was a 'bit inebriated'
End of story,' she wrote.
1832
He claimed the Labour party would ‘never’ eliminate the budget deficit – unlike Tory plans to run a surplus by 2020 – because they would borrow billions of pounds every year and not cut spending.
1833
Chairman of the Geelong College council, Dr Hugh Seward said the incident was a serious breach of the school's standards .
1834
You will burn more calories after exercise due to EPOC (Excess Post-Exercise Oxygen Consumption).
But if you want to lose belly fat, you must exercise, full stop.
1835
Hospital staff were 'distressed' over what were perceived to be two avoidable deaths, as 83 percent of pregnant leukemia sufferers go into remission with treatment.
1836
Some rocks were originally stuck together with a form of ancient glue and have been carbon dated to be around 7,000 BC.
They date to at least 5,000 BC .
1837
Syrian state television said the military had ambushed some militants close to Jisr al-Shughour, which was captured on Saturday for the first time in the four-year conflict by a hardline Islamist alliance including al-Qaeda.
1838
Silva celebrates with team-mates as his side Porto beat Fulham 3-0 .
But Mourinho, whose side are closing in on the Premier League title, decided to miss the Madrid derby .
1839
William, who unusually took his wife's surname when they got married, said: 'Three or four months went by, then another couple of months - I didn't have the courage to say anything about it, probably due to the fact of the age gap, and the fact she was my mate's mum.'
1840
Holing up with Booth in Monte Carlo has got Lee in tune for the biggest night of his life.
'Looking back, did I think it was going to happen for him ?
1841
Shortly after the crime, Beggs, originally from Northern Ireland, fled to the Netherlands.
Beggs has repeatedly tried and failed to have his conviction overturned at the Supreme Court.
1842
Manuel Pellegrini says the academy players at Manchester City are not ready for the first team .
Young players are important.
We will see the way we play.
1843
TOWIE star Jake Hall points to his co-star Chloe Lewis in the stands at York Street after scoring for Boston United in their Conference North match with Tamworth on Monday .
1844
A new campaign from Rape Crisis London has captured hundreds of women across London in various outfits to point out that no matter what they choose to wear they are not asking to be raped .
1845
Mr Miliband has vowed to force companies to offer staff a full time contract if they have been working regular hours for three months.
1846
Speaking at the New York International Auto Show, Dr Neusser didn’t give any specific design details away, but said that the new version will share at least three key features with the Westfalia Camper.
1847
Three versions of Apple's watch (pictured) are available to pre-order online and almost one million orders are thought to have been taken in the US on the first day alone .
1848
It has been the kind of scoring sequence where pretty much anything struck seems to fly into the top corner and that was the case for Abraham's first goal against City.
1849
He has also had to wade into a number of arguments, defending outspoken ministers, and even got into a muddle over cream teas.
1850
Her Majesty's account @BritishMonarchy has amassed 970,000 followers during its time online and more than double the 446,000 picked up by the Prince of Wales and his @ClarenceHouse account.
1851
A human rights activist said when he visited him in prison he had abrasions on his body and had suffered multiple injuries .
1852
A new report claims Ivan Milat, Australia's most notorious serial killer, could have been caught before he murdered seven backpackers .
1853
Southampton boss Ronald Koeman has praised the work of his predecessor Mauricio Pochettino at the club .
'I like him as a person and as a coach and we have a good contact.'
1854
Experts say demonic activity is on the rise due to an in creased interest in the occult among the young including ouija boards and seances.
1855
'The man is able to state that he was born in Poland and may have travelled to London from Denmark within the past few days.
What is retrograde amnesia?
1856
That’s what I saw Michael Clarke doing at the World Cup after he had been bounced out a couple of times.
He shows a lot of character with the ball and is a steely performer.
1857
It reads: ‘A significant degree of the UK’s international influence flows from the success and dynamism of the British economy, further raising the stakes on whether the UK can sustain stronger economic growth while continuing to pursue ambitious fiscal consolidation.’
1858
Instead, the link between media endorsement of extreme thinness and the development of anorexia is neither simple nor clear.
This is still underweight, according to the World Health Organisation.
1859
Master craftsman:
Knife edge:
Art work:
His work can be seen on display in a special showroom in the Han Dynasty museum in Zhengzhou.
Restoration:
1860
They would legislate to give all housing association tenants full right-to-buy.
The Tories say they will make councils sell off expensive properties when they become vacant.
1861
The Los Angeles-based company has switched to a web-only retail model following the closure of all of its 94 locations, with the brand now encouraging customers to shop online,The Los Angeles Times reported on Thursday.
1862
Its capital, Kars, is now a symbol of the division over the deaths between the two countries: it sits on the border but the frontier is closed.
1863
The move followed 'numerous' complaints from both the public and the Australian Medical Association that the AVN name was misleading the public and wasn’t an accurate representation of its activities.
1864
Durst, who prosecutors have said is worth up to $100 million, has long been estranged from his powerful family, which has major New York real estate holdings.
1865
Hussain was fined £500 for each assault and ordered her to pay £500 compensation to Mrs Ramsaroop, £200 to Mr Shaw, £500 prosecution costs and a £50 victim surcharge.
1866
Paris Saint-Germain midfielder Marco Verratti has heaped praise on Zlatan Ibrahimovic for playing an 'essential' role for the French club.
1867
On March 14, Cheryl Silvonek learned that Barnes intended to take her daughter to a concert in Scranton.
Police found the body in a shallow grave a few miles from the Silvonek home.
1868
Both Barcelona and Real Madrid booked their spots in the semi-finals this week with victories over Paris Saint-Germain and Atletico Madrid respectively.
1869
Clare Balding was another who took to Twitter to show off her Pele shirt in support of The Bobby Moore Fund .
1870
Keonna Thomas, 30, was preparing to travel overseas to fight with the terror group, authorities said,
Authorities would not immediately say why she had not made the trip.
1871
The band appealed.
The team is appealing the . cancellation, saying the disparagement provision violates the . First Amendment.
1872
While the SNP would 'cut less to start with', the implication of the plans spelt out in their manifesto would be that the 'period of austerity would be longer than under the other three parties we consider', it said.
1873
Stop looking at what your own county needs and ask what is best for English cricket moving forward and what is right for the England team to sustain a proper period of success.
1874
The punishment will not take effect until May because Torpedo are already required to play their next two home games behind closed doors for a separate incident in which fans abused Zenit St Petersburg striker Hulk with monkey chants.
1875
Maria Sharapova poses with the Coupe Suzanne Lenglen trophy after beating Simon Halep in last year's final .
1876
Winnie, whose real name is Chantelle Brown-Young, was one of the contestants on Tyra's hit reality series America's Next Top Model, while Shaun made an appearance on the former model's eponymous talk show in 2009.
1877
But he separated himself from the most conservative . dissenters and declined to declare outright that states may ban . gay marriage.
1878
This may just be the best photo-bomb ever.
'We were posing at Apo Island when this sea turtle surfaced to breathe and photo-bombed,' de Jesus wrote on his blog.
1879
They stressed that a course of rabies vaccination could prevent infection.
Once it enters the body, the rabies virus multiplies before spreading into nerve endings.
1880
Seville, Spain .
Iceland .
The sun sets on the beautiful town of Essaouira, in Morroco, which Game of Thrones fans may recognise as Astapor .
1881
'Pride is the word I would use,' said Michael Scudamore.
Treadwell's contented look as he strolled to the Owners and Trainers tent a little while after said as much.
1882
Eriksen, who joined Spurs in the summer of 2013, has been with girlfriend Kvist for almost three years .
1883
That was a key incident in the match, as was the penalty that was awarded to Inverness in the 55th minute which saw Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon sent off for bringing down Marley Watkins.
1884
They were depicted as thuggish cavemen that scraped an existence on the cold lands of ice age Europe.
They discovered a 26 feet wide building created 44,000 years ago from mammoth bones.
1885
A lost photograph showing a woman killed by the tornado that leveled an Illinois village last week was found 35 miles away after being carried there by the storm.
1886
According to the prosecution, the former executive had argued with his wife over his . medications on the morning of the crash, WMUR reported.
1887
Light rain fell on mourners at the service on Saturday afternoon, a week after he was killed .
Men carry flowers into the church where Scott's service is being held today.
1888
World all-around silver medallist and reigning pommel horse champion Max Whitlock and Olympic team-mates Kristian Thomas, Sam Oldham and Daniel Purvis are also selected, with Courtney Tulloch finishing off the six-man squad.
1889
'I think that he can play at Balaidos (Celta's stadium),' added the Spain international, who came through Barca's youth academy with Messi.
My feeling is that he will play.'
1890
I said then that to be a game-changer it needed to expand the service to more countries – and it has.
In EU countries, roaming charges are much lower as they are capped.
1891
Relegation-threatened Romanian club Ceahlaul Piatra Neamt have sacked Brazilian coach Ze Maria for the second time in a week.
The result left Ceahlaul 16th in the standings, six points adrift of safety.
1892
The service heard Mr Johnston was among eight fighters in a broken-down truck confronted and outnumbered by IS.
His comrades said he sacrificed himself to draw enemy fire, a move that saved them.
1893
Millie agrees that the rise in popularity of adult colouring books, could be down to their therapeutic quality.
Plenty more fish in the sea!
1894
The invitation to the Waterloo 200 event says: 'The service, although related to a military victory, is not in any way glorifying war, nor must it be seen as triumphalist.'
1895
PSG are weighing up options with Manchester United refusing to budge on Angel di Maria.
The French giants have been warned off Manchester United's Argentinian forward Angel di Maria (centre)
1896
It's actually become the George Osborne approach.
David Cameron has pledged to increase spending by £8billion a year by 2020 - which Labour has refused to match .
1897
website reports that the one lingering issue that adversely affects Netflix's operations in Australia is pre-existing distribution deals cut for its original shows in markets where, previously, it didn't exist.
1898
But now their story could trump the Great Escape after Hollywood bosses snapped up the rights to turn military historian Mark Felton's book about the escape Zero Night into a blockbuster.
1899
It went 0-60mph in nine seconds and had a top speed of 140mph.
The car is expected to attract £1million - more than double the £431,200 it sold for four years ago .
1900
Surrounded by water and isolated from the town, the tiny island is far from basic.
The house is decorate in clean neutral colours with modern furnishings, for a comfortable stay .
1901
Morocco can now compete in the next two African Cup of Nations after the initial ban was imposed .
1902
The video for the first single on the group’s most recent album depicts androgynous-looking singer Channy Leaneagh subjecting her trussed-up alter ego to a violent assault.
1903
King has delayed the process of nominating himself as chairman until he can persuade the governing body's Professional Game Board that 41 convictions under South African tax law are not a breach of SFA regulations.
1904
Victorian finance, leasing and risk management company Morris Finance have made the largest donation to the cause by pledging $2000.
1905
As he disappeared down the tunnel, he hung his head and wept.
Federici’s mistake gave them an escape route that they followed eagerly.
1906
She alleges that when 'Doggie' disappeared, Ms Kunis confessed to the crime and told her 'Kristina, you can have any other chicken as a pet, you have a whole chicken farm', the website states.
1907
A local resident noticed the man carrying out the work with a lack of safety equipment on the slippery tiles and quickly took snaps of the man.
1908
Hibernian (3-5-2): Oxley; Forster, Hanlon, Fontaine; McGeouch, Allan, Robertson (Dja Djedje 80), Fyvie, Stevenson; El Alagui, Cummings (Malonga 87)
1909
He can earn £1 a week or £200,000, he’ll still play the same way.
This club’s relegation is not at stake, it is about us maybe getting some glory for the football club.
1910
The inquiry into the former Syrian vice president's finances was triggered by Sherpa, an activist group representing the victims of financial crime, which claims his fortune was stolen during his time at the heart of the Syrian regime.
1911
But because of the very limited details available, it is impossible to identify how much money the arm received – or whether it paid any tax in the UK.
1912
'We can keep speculating but I suspect at the end of the West Indies series, they'll look at it and if he hasn't got any runs there might be some questions asked.
1913
She writes about everything form the best pies to the biggest beds and has travelled the world from Indonesia to the US and Mexico to document great hotels.
1914
Miss Gascoigne took to her Twitter page after the attack, where she branded her muggers 'lowlifes on bikes'
They also had a child together called Regan.
1915
He also posted a moving video tribute to his late mother with a song he had written in her honor.
It also shows footage of Cynthia with John during the early days of Beatlemania.
1916
Moya played in the league with Oblak coming in for Champions League games but in his first match in Europe he conceded three goals from three shots.
1917
The girl was going to turn two this weekend, according to KLAS.
No names have been released of the father, toddler or the family members who were at the house.
1918
Qatar have unveiled the design for their fifth World Cup stadium, a 40,000-seater ground built in 'the gateway to the desert' and featuring air conditioning for the comfort of players and fans.
1919
An agency spokesman later told CNN that the 'advanced imaging technology machine' only shows 'an outline of an individual' that was 'the same for every single person'.
1920
Digby was rescued by the RSPCA and taken to a centre in Hertfordshire where the two have quickly become inseparable .
It really is a love story.'
1921
The blackwood and copperlight archway has been tastefully adapted to suit the light-filled property and the windows upstiars are also a Homeden original.
1922
World No 2 Roger Federer poses with a snowball and his racket on his official Twitter account .
1923
By looking at results from 944,000 people, including 75,000 from the UK, researchers found the British had the seventh most disturbed sleep out of 50 countries surveyed.
1924
The United forward was schooled here, denied space and room to breathe by the constant, intimidating presence of Chelsea’s captain John Terry.
1925
Sterling has insisted he is not a 'money grabber' and Taylor, chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association, believes waiting until the season is over before resuming talks could be a wise move.
1926
The man then climbs on to the pit wall and hauls himself over before heading to the Ferrari garage .
Waving his entry ticket, it is believed the local man shouted: 'I want a car.
1927
An anonymous college student (pictured) is thought to have escaped without a ticket for underage drinking after she beat a police officer in a game of Rock Paper Scissors .
Tension:
1928
'Playing with Pique is very simple,' he added.
Mathieu praised Gerard Pique (right) after his impressive defensive display for Barcelona on Sunday .
1929
She also said that the protests on Saturday were about 'criticism, not racism'.
'There was no violence at the Brisbane rally whatsoever.
1930
Allardyce (left, pictured behind Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini) has not been up to scratch .
West Ham must go to the Olympic Stadium with more on their minds than survival.
1931
'This is an ideal location for a World Cup,' Mokdad told The National, one of UAE's main newspapers.
1932
Liberty's father Paul Baker (left) said he wished he had been killed instead.
Blackwell's car following the incident last June.
He said it was ‘the worst day’.
1933
The bodies of victims from the earthquake that hit Nepal and surrounding countries lie on the ground before being cremated .
Rescue efforts are still ongoing to track down survivors from the quake .
1934
The Microsoft co-founder this week unveiled 'Vulcan Aerospace', which will look after the space programs of Stratolaunch Systems.
1935
'According to the club's medical staff, tests conducted on Thursday ... confirmed heavy bruising in the sacroiliac joint,' Barca said on their website.
1936
He added that a new customer care manager will soon be visiting the new homes, insisting that an emergency meeting with subcontractors will establish time scales for work to be done.
1937
He also said that brief answers and hesitation are also signs of lying.
If they're not prepared, they'll either mirror your language or stutter for an answer,' he explains.
1938
The robots' 'feet' are covered in tiny rubber spikes, mimicking the hairs.
Only one foot moves at a time to ensure the robot moves forward without falling down.
1939
The statue of Christ the Redeemer (above) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is one of many depictions of Jesus but Mr Fitzgerald says that many of the early depictions were unable to agree on his appearance .
1940
Rio Ferdiand (right) believes that Manchester United are at their strongest with Wayne Rooney in attack .
'The performance against Liverpool was the Manchester United of old.
1941
'A 16-year-old girl was arrested on suspicion of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism and has been bailed until 28 May 2015.'
1942
Families in the UK are more indebted than those in many other major developed nations, said the International Monetary Fund –
1943
When planning a romantic trip with his girlfriend to watch One Direction in Cardiff, he got the first part of his plan right by managing to buy the gig tickets.
1944
Robert Butler was transported inside a shipping container from Bannister House in Providence, Rhode Island to the Eleanor Slater Hospital in Cranston on Sunday after his nursing home shut down amid financial difficulties.
1945
Competitor Group Inc. said that Bretscher was the only runner affected by the course, and as a silver lining, they're offering her a second shot at one of their other marathons, free of charge .
1946
As one person holds onto the line, a massive shark leaps out of the water less than two metres away, thrashing violently to try release itself from the hook.
1947
James was 22 months and tumbled from the window because a screen was not strong enough to hold him .
Doctors worked for hours to save his life, but he died on April 20.
1948
'We are both so excited,' Rachelle said.
'Everything has gone so fast.
Laurel's due date is April 18, the day after Chris, a teacher, finishes school.
1949
We are cooperating fully with the investigation.
The district has suspended the employee in question and banned him from campus as per disciplinary policy.
1950
Frenchman Pouille showed glimpses of his talent but was unable to trouble Nadal .
Nadal is an eight-time champion at Monte Carlo but hasn't won the tournament since 2012 .
1951
Miss Walters said: 'He was getting very expensive.
Last night, the seller insisted there was 'another side to the story', but declined to comment further.
1952
The man turned down by Liverpool was given the unfortunate task of trying to fill the boots of Costa, but rarely looked shy in doing so.
1953
The prison is now closed.
Brazilian police guard entrance to the building where the fan group were making flags ahead of Sunday's game .
1954
Noreen was one of the lucky ones.
MPs are warning that women will die as a result of the screening age limit.
'The treatment was murderous,' says Noreen.
1955
Britain's aid budget may have to soar by hundreds of millions of pounds a year because of new EU rules, it has emerged.
1956
A second Liberal Democrat election candidate has revealed he is HIV positive as he launched a scathing attack on Nigel Farage for his comments on the condition during last week's TV debate.
1957
It took five takes to film the clip, the couple told KPTV.
Melissa told the Fox affliate of the video's success 'It was completely unexpected.
1958
Previously people said you move to England to get international caps.
‘A Treble this year would stand beside the other three in Celtic’s history,’ said Boyd.
1959
All the best!
#Felizaniversariomano'
Camara is a fringe player at PSG and is unlikely to feature in what will be the biggest game of the season .
1960
His next move is to vigorously shake the glass from left to right.
YouTube users have been praising MicahMedia for his ingenious solution to the age-old problem.
1961
But said she will fight for as much power for Scotland as she can get.
'Now, I will not stop campaigning for and wanting Scotland to become independent, but that will only happen in a referendum.'
1962
'This will change my life in a magnificent way.'
He said the number one question people ask him is why he's still homeless .
He said 'life' is the reason for that.
1963
The delivery from the Spaniard is poor and the Northern All-Stars break with Sterling.
Michael Carrick is replaced by Yaya Toure.
46th minute:
1964
'We got 62,000 our first game.
'The bottom line is we have got just under 4 million pounds to work with for 28 players (one of them is his son Harrison).
1965
Police are offering a £5,000 reward for information on the whereabouts of a 'very dangerous' convicted murderer who is on the run after being released from jail on licence.
1966
He believes it is possible that studies of the concept of 'symmetry-breaking,' a potentially distinctive part of sentence formation, 'may offer new empirical data to test the hypothesis and shed light on the birth of human language.'
1967
If anyone says you shouldn’t wear low-cut tops – no, reclaiming your body is a part of the process of recovery.
Mrs Danczuk said having therapy and ‘dealing with it’ had transformed her life.
1968
However, the university says its business with the agency is now finished.
As a kid I was pushed to go give time in my community, and it felt good.
1969
Mrs Hannigan said: 'Cancer doesn't get any less scary.
'Each time I found the cancer myself in the form of lumps just under the skin.
1970
The Philadelphia Phillies march into the stadium before the game against the Boston Red Sox .
Cancer survivor Julie Kramer throws out an opening pitch before an opening day game .
1971
They have dispensed with two managers (Hodgson and Dalglish) and one director of football (Damien Comolli) since taking over in 2010 and will not hesitate to act if they feel things are going askew.
1972
About 1,400 used syringes have been returned.
Medical waste containers stored in preparation for Scott County residents that are looking to exchange used needles.
1973
The unhealthy dessert contains four 7-inch wide waffles, 12 huge scoops of thick ice-cream, four flakes and a giant portion of whipped cream .
1974
On Saturday evening, NAC Breda manager Robert Maaskant let his fists do the talking as his side did just that against FC Dordrecht.
1975
Frankie Gavin is set to be handed a shot at Kell Brook’s IBF welterweight world title at The O2 on May 30.
I'm going to have to perform out of my skin.
1976
During the Old Bailey (pictured) hearing, Judge Cooke expressed his 'unhappiness' at the failure of authorities to deport Byfield back to Jamaica when he attacked another woman with a chisel in 2005 .
1977
Indian Country Today Media Network spoke to one of the actors who walked off, Navajo Nation tribal member Loren Anthony, about his issues with the script.
1978
Judge Mary Stacey admitted the victim had been 'scarred psychologically' by the sexual assault but freed Josh Sweet after serving just two months on remand .
1979
The 41-year-old said that he was ‘as close to the action as you could get’, having gone to the area after hearing on the news that Nato exercises were taking place in the area.
My stepson is still making jet noises.’
1980
According to an FBI affidavit, the government's months-long investigation was aided by recordings made by a man who once planned to travel to Syria himself, but then decided to cooperate.
1981
A couple from Texas who celebrated their wedding in 2012 claim their photographer wrote hurtful racial slurs on the bottom of photo booth snapshots from the event.
1982
An Anzac-branded port (not pictured) was also denied permission to use the term .
Approval is usually granted to businesses that operate on a road with the word Anzac in it.
1983
Experts have warned that up to 99 per cent of payday lenders could be driven out of business by the rates cap, although Wonga is considered likely to survive because of its high profile.
1984
Claire, 44, has now enlisted the help of Susan Hepburn, who famously helped Lily Allen slim form a size 14 to an 8.
1985
He said he didn't know why he was unhappy but his GP said 'they were due to relationship problems.'
Joshua, of Chapeltown, died from multiple injuries.
1986
Big Brother star Pete Bennett, who won the TV programme in 2006, has revealed he is now homeless.
'I couldn’t go out without doing it.
1987
Speaking about the new campaign, This Morning presenter Holly, left, said: 'I absolutely loved shooting with Davina, she is such an iconic brunette'
The family have since embarked on a road trip around California, visiting the picturesque coastal town of Carmel, where Clint Eastwood served as mayor for two years from 1986.
1988
As Sunday night’s latest heartthrob, women across the country have voiced their longing to settle down with Poldark – but unfortunately it seems as if his heart is well and truly off the market .
1989
Detective Superintendent Gavin Dengate said the reason police were involved shortly after Jessica's disappearance was due to how 'out of character' it was.
1990
'Along with some fantastic defensive displays, we are good to watch and it's (a) great (team) to play in.
'I think The FA Cup final is a one-off day.
1991
Clinton, whose mother Hillary is expected to formally announce her presidential campaign this Sunday, said it is time the United States had a female leader.
1992
But with salvaged illustrations and some replacement photos, it is to be published this month by military experts Pen & Sword Books under the title The Rise of Hitler.
1993
One face missing from the England tour party in the Caribbean is specialist maths analyst Nathan Leamon, an important figure given coach Peter Moores’ love of data.
1994
Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea has been in fantastic form for Louis van Gaal's side this season .
1995
The furthest the Royals have reached in the competition is the last four, where they lost 3-0 at Molineux to eventual winners Cardiff... in 1927.
1996
'We had to get it down,' Superintendent McNamara said.
Parliamentary Secretary to the Premier, Gareth Ward, predicted the clean-up operation would take a long time.
1997
Ms Gerhardt tells her students that by ignoring, the bully is being frozen in their tracks with nowhere to go .
'With email, it's all about the tone,' she said.
1998
A teenage girl has appeared in court accused of plotting to travel overseas to join Kurdish rebels in the fight against the Islamic State.
1999
Mr Wright was in the Staffordshire Yeomanry who came ashore in the ‘second wave’ of troops.
He was an engineer whose job was to repair damaged vehicles.
2000
He said they were ‘victims of a welfare trap laid by Labour, paid for by hardworking taxpayers’.
‘For many second earners, work didn’t pay because the cost of childcare was so high.
2001
Andrew Chan's mother was in tears as she boarded a ferry to 'death island' with the Bali Nine pair's Australian lawyer Julian McMahon.
2002
Since then, there has been a fall in the number of Garys.
GIRLS .
Any hope of revival was shattered by the ticklish toy from SesameStreet.
2003
The party believes the smoking ban, cheap alcohol in supermarkets and rising business rates are among the reasons why an estimated one in four pubs are closing every day.
2004
Australian Olympian Jana Pittman is believed to have given birth to her second child, a daughter named Emily .
2005
Thiago was sidelined, hence his availability in the summer of 2013.
He is very much a global footballer for the 21st century.
2006
The booths are protected by screens to prevent onlookers from seeing inmates, but appointments have to made in advance.
He had requested privacy.
2007
When leaving a settlement, the female wearer would have worn this naastit (pictured) under trousers .
Many of these primitive buildings would have housed more than one family.
2008
'This is probably his secret, and the thing that has allowed him to become one of the greatest players around today: he combines individual quality with a willingness for collective sacrifice.'
2009
10 μSv: Average daily natural radiation .
40 μSv: Radiation from flying from New York to Los Angeles .
3,600 μSv: Average annual radiation of a US citizen .
2010
‘When we beat them, we were having a good period ourselves and we need to get back to that.
‘He’s too quick for me, but you’ve just got to be in the right position.
2011
Eventually the car towing the caravan jackknifes, coming to rest across the front of the van, blocking the slip road - believed to be junction 8 with the M5, near Birmingham.
2012
But Thor’s parents said the report revealed that staff had behaved ‘appallingly’ over their son’s death in September 2013.
2013
Spieth kisses his girlfriend Annie Verret following his record-breaking title win on Sunday .
Spieth proudly stands with yet another golf trophy during his younger years .
2014
Models were seen to have a colourful display of tattoos on show at the Alice McCall show .
Model is seen wearing nineties Spice Girls bun hair style on runway at Phoenix Keating .
2015
Rodgers thought the much-publicised review meeting he held with Liverpool's players on Sunday paved the way for them to get back to winning ways in the FA Cup.
2016
Police evacuated two buildings as smoke came out of manholes, according to the television station.
Police reportedly evacuated two buildings Sunday .
2017
The high society wedding is set on the rooftop of a city building with romantic lanterns .
A more bohemian wedding is set in a wheat field, complete with quirky bunting .
2018
Wray, who served as the 2013 and 2014 Pi Kappa Alpha president, was tasked with keeping safe women who 'could no longer take care of themselves' at parties at the off-campus frat house, the Salt Lake Tribune reported.
2019
Surrey are playing the match against Oxford, which does not have First Class status, ahead of their championship opener against Glamorgan next week.
2020
Benatia could miss both legs of Bayern Munich's Champions League quarter-final against Porto .
2021
She said: 'I lost quite a lot of blood because of his weight but I tried not to show the fact that I was in so much pain.
Danielle and her son Harley .
2022
Officers said the CCTV showed a woman moving the victim's shopping trolley before leaving the market on the afternoon of April 7, West Midlands Police said.
2023
A picky ten per cent of participants say they would remove the crust from their sandwich but almost half (47 per cent) say they like to add extras such as pesto and tomato.
2024
When you are aged 104, do you really want to be managing a property?
However, it is cheaper for young people to obtain life cover to pay off the mortgage if they die early.
2025
The service said it receives around 2,500 calls per day, and in the last two years has had to deal with 1,248 that did not need emergency help.
2026
Using a combination of ultraviolet light and photo editing software, the 16th century owner's penchant for erasure has been partly reversed to reveal snatches of poetry.
2027
The 39-year-old is returning from a self-imposed break from golf to recover from injuries and a dip in form .
I'm a huge fan, a friend and I care about him.
2028
The victim said she was left feeling ‘vulnerable, apprehensive and anxious’ after she discovered someone had tried to steal her identity.
2029
Sporting a claret and blue scarf, the former striker holds his hands aloft as Villa take a 2-1 lead on Tuesday .
Following Tuesday night's result, Villa are 16th in the Premier League table.
2030
Naz Shah, the Labor party candidate standing against George Galloway in Bradford West, has previously told how she was forced into marriage age 15 - but Mr Galloway's party claims to have evidence this is untrue .
2031
Emma Rance, marine conservation officer at Dorset Wildlife Trust, added: 'The injuries to its face suggest a boat strike.
2032
He was fortunate not to get a straight red and he agreed with me.
I'm not bothered about performances, we need results,' he said.
2033
Former two-weight world champion Haye, 34, was stopped by officials on his arrival at Dubai International Airport and accused of fraud by writing a cheque as payment for a new property which bounced.
2034
Vergini celebrates with team-mate Costel Pantilimon at the full-time whistle following the Wear-Tyne derby win .
2035
Everywhere was filled with celebrations and saxophones.’ Louis
He invested in successful businesses and lived until shortly before his 100th birthday, in 2005.
2036
The redevelopment will increase the overall capacity of Lord's, the home of English cricket, to almost 30,000 .
2037
They found that the mammoths on Wrangel Island had been isolated for at least 5,000 years, eking out a meager existence there before dying out 4,500 years ago.
2038
Unfortunately for most, the superyacht costs 40million euros to build, meaning it will retail for even more .
2039
We want to win the Treble but now it’s over.
We lost and we’re very disappointed.
On Wednesday we play Dundee away.
There is a lot of disappointment.
2040
Waleed Aly apologised for the embarrassing ‘stuff up’ later on during the program after the mistake was flagged by gobsmacked Twitter users .
2041
The discredited pathway was scrapped last year after the Mail revealed that doctors were placing 'DNR' notices on patients without their knowledge and depriving them of food and fluids.
2042
However, the police will always pursue those wanted for serious crimes such as this, regardless of where they are in the world.'
2043
Ditch your towel .
2. To avoid creases, pack your clothes in plastic wrappings .
Believe it or not, this astringent powder is a beach bag essential.
2044
Mexican striker dubbed Chicharito was allowed out by Louis van Gaal and played for Real against Liverpool in the Champions League group stages.
2045
More than one in five families do not have money left by the deceased to help with the cost of the funeral, the report said.
2046
The spacecraft was scheduled to dock with the International Space Station six hours after take off, but that plan has now been 'indefinitely abandoned'.
2047
'Here' was Child Protective Services, Rafi said.
The Meitivs believe in giving children an unusual amount of independence from a young age .
2048
It may still be April, but Britain looks set to get an early dose of summer sun.
People relax on the beach in Broadstairs, Kent, as fine weather continues across the UK .
2049
Ian is pictured with the puppet, little is known about him other than he likes jazz and may be from Belgium .
She said she'd died and felt trapped.
2050
His plan? To get the all important 'selfie' - and make an appearance on the Street View map.
It was the first time Nasr had seen a Street View car, and he followed it in his own vehicle .
2051
But Arsene’s solo was much more dramatic.
And John Terry securing the right to be last image in the show with his enthusiastic shadow-boxing celebration.
2052
His total pay last year soared by more than five-fold from 2013 when his Google compensation was valued at $19.3 million.
2053
But a Renault driver wasn't happy and pulled into the inside lane to block the Mercedes from moving forwards .
2054
Bulgarians love their traditional music.
Apart from the hotel, Yagodina was totally devoid of any tourist infrastructure.
Picturesque scenery!
2055
Torrey Ward was a big part of the success taking place with our men's basketball program.
The twin engine plane belonged to his father Terry Bittner, according to reports.
2056
David Cameron has been caught joking about Alex Salmond pinching people's wallets in remarks broadcast after a TV interview ended.
2057
Workers restore the southern barbican entrance to Wanquan Castle, which was known as the Ming Dynasty's 'Martial City'
2058
The fire broke out on the right-hand side of the plane.
The video shows people leaping from the plane before a fire engine races to put out the flames.
2059
Another diver also on the same boat made similar claims, saying the people on the boat were left without any information for a number of hours after the incident which claimed Ms Farrell's life.
2060
For my son I will gladly do anything.'
The next course of his cancer treatment will cost up to 500,000 Yuan, but the family is entitled to some relief .
2061
Joyce Cox was just days away from celebrating her fifth birthday when she was strangled to death on her way home from school in Cardiff on September 28, 1939.
2062
But Marseille capitulated in the final six minutes as Jordan Ayew scored his second from a fine solo run before Mathias Autret secured Lorient's first win in five games after home goalkeeper Steve Mandanda had parried his first effort.
2063
The bodies of about 60 soldiers of all nationalities are found each year, buried across Europe, and there are around 187,000 graves from the First World War that bear the ‘Known Unto God’ inscription.
2064
4pm:
Tottenham Hotspur v Manchester City (Sky Sports) Monday, May 4 .
5:30pm: Crystal Palace v Manchester United (Sky Sports) Sunday, May 10 .
2065
Researchers say the genes were lost after cold Antarctic temperatures interfered with taste perception.
The findings were published in the journal Nature.
2066
The daughter of troubled ex-footballer Paul Gascoigne has been mugged by a gang on bikes in central London who took her phone which reportedly had private texts from her father.
2067
Mexican restaurant Chipotle has decided to tap into the $70 billion food delivery market by teaming up with an app to bring burritos straight to customers' doors.
2068
Brendan Rodgers is under pressure at Liverpool after a third straight season without a trophy .
'I'm from an under-privileged area – Bootle in Liverpool.
2069
Up in smoke: Volcano Calbuco, in southern Chile, erupted forcing 1,500 residents from Ensenada, about 10 miles away,  to flee their homes .
2070
Officers investigating the popular fast food house reportedly found boxes containing the frozen carcasses of dozens of dogs.
'We were perplexed.
2071
During the match they will go to Leazes Park behind the stadium.
Fans are unhappy at how Newcastle are being run under Mike Ashley and have planned a boycott .
2072
The cousin of Princes William and Harry looked serene in a chic white dress with gold embellishment.
Eugenie has been in New York for the past year, working for an online auction house.
2073
'Police hold concerns for Ms Scott's welfare as her disappearance is reported to be out of character,' a statement from police said.
2074
People did try to warn Whelan when he first entertained the idea of replacing Uwe Rosler with Mackay last November.
It will take time, of course.
2075
But Tibetan Mastiffs are now so unpopular in China they are being sent to slaughterhouses – and their meat put into cheap hotpots.
2076
The ex-Rangers youth has been mourning the loss of Shaun Cole, 22, who was found dead in a Miami street last weekend and is thought to have been the victim of a hit-and-run driver.
2077
Campbell apparently discovered that Pebbles had suffered a broken leg and had reason to believe Valecce was responsible.
Halin then took over the tattoo gun.
2078
’ The private jet also includes its own executive and sous in-flight chefs and exclusively stocks Dom Pérignon champagne.
2079
'It has happened before and will happen again.
'It happened to me in 2003 when I scored a legitimate goal against Rangers at Hampden Park in a cup final.
2080
Solid defensive display, up against Lazar Markovic and Philippe Coutinho.
Arsenal's Nacho Monreal put in a solid defensive display against Liverpool at the Emirates .
2081
He was named the Scottish Footballer of the Year in season 1964-65, the first ever winner of the award.
As both player and manager, he enjoyed a 27-year association with Celtic Football Club.
2082
Arrested: Arnold Quintero from San Antonio, Texas .
A man has been arrested after a 13-year-old girl was imprisoned, beaten, sexually assaulted and burned with a lighter in America.
2083
Susan Kangal, who was on a boat, told WSFA it was the worst storm that she has seen.
It was a wide area,' said Dauphin Island Mayor Jeff Collier.
2084
The Togolese striker is out of favour at White Hart Lane, with both the player and manager Mauricio Pochettino happy for the hitman to leave once the transfer window re-opens.
2085
When she approached him before the hearing, she held her arms outstretched towards his – and this most unlikely pair became locked in an embrace.
2086
'If we are going to get anything there, we have to enjoy it and really play as a team and work as a team.'
West Ham look short of options in attack.
2087
'The Thomson aircraft was apparently en route from London, U.K. to Cancun, Mexico.'
The passengers in question were removed from the aircraft and met by police.
2088
Mr Heeley finished the 'toughest foot race on Earth' on Friday after running almost 160 miles .
So far, he has raised £20,000 but hopes to reach a further £10,000.
2089
The video depicts the car rocketing down a dead-straight stretch of unrestricted road in the outback .
2090
Three former England rugby internationals - Lewis Moody, Josh Lewsey and Danny Grewcock - continued with their trip to the North Pole despite the landing gear of their plane collapsing on their way out .
2091
Up to 3,000 cases of Lyme disease are reported in England and Wales every year.
It's good news on meningitis, despite a scare for my son .
2092
The manager said the mess was ‘gigantic’ and had to clean it up, along with her assistant manager.
Hundreds of people have since commented on Jack’s good nature.
2093
Barcelona won the quarter-final, first-leg match 3-1 to put themselves in control of the tie .
Barcelona 3 Manchester United 1 (2011 final at Wembley)
2094
Roger Federer defeated Jeremy Chardy in his Monte Carlo opener 6-2, 6-1 to reach the last 16 .
The match was Federer's first since his loss in the Indian Wells final in March .
2095
She said the SNP would ensure that ‘the contribution older people have made throughout their lives is recognised’ if they hold the balance of power after the election.
2096
The clip of his son drifting off has since received more than 1.7 million views, with one mom commenting on Wednesday that the trick worked for her baby five times already.
2097
Glasgow coach Gregor Townsend has been able to call upon the services of star fly half Finn Russll once more .
Townsend is not taking their challenge lightly.
2098
Another crew was sent out to take the pensioner to hospital.
Hargreaves admitted separate matters of robbery and theft against a newsagents on the same day.
2099
Much of the comic book film, Avengers: Age of Ultron, was shot in Seoul and the country's culture ministry agreed to cover a third of filming costs in the city on the agreement the Republic of Korea is shown as 'high tech' and 'modern'.
2100
Mr Cameron has claimed that Labour are planning to increase taxes by £3,028 on 'every working family'.
Lower taxes under David Cameron.
2101
Thursday's Anti-Gay Day protest is understood to have been a reaction to the previous day's event.
2102
The largest previously recorded Triceratops skull measured 8.2ft (2.5 metres) long, but the creatures' skulls were said to average at around 7ft (2 metres).
2103
The report claimed the Nottingham University academic’s work was ‘important for the plans of the West to create a “colour revolution” in Russia’.
She has been offered consular support by the British Embassy.
2104
Previous studies settled on between two or three minutes duration; another rated the 'ideal time' of intercourse for both men and women at between three and 13 minutes.
2105
Justin is shown in March 2013 as he tussled with paparazzi in London .
Bieber had been partying at the popular music festival over the weekend, seen here on Friday .
2106
Stanford has reportedly been uncooperative with investigators.
A vigil has been created at the school where the popular 26-year-old teacher taught drama and English .
2107
The data  also revealed that the number of atheists, agnostics and those who are religiously unaffiliated will  decline from 16 per cent of the world's population to 13 per cent in the next four decades.
2108
But Samuels has taken the difficult road.
I find the mental side of Test cricket to be unparalleled.
But Test cricket is what players will be remembered for.
2109
Joe Perry v Zhang Anda .
The tournament runs from April 18 to May 4. ‘As a snooker player it’s not nice to sit there watching when you could be playing.
2110
She spoke of facing verbal abuse while walking in the streets because of how she appeared to other people.
'She had a negative view of Carlisle based on past experience.
2111
Primary school children have been banned from running in the playground in case they fall over and injure themselves.
2112
In Truth or Consequences, New Mexico last June, the pet owner in question wasn't as eager to put the incident behind her.
2113
Roma keeper Morgan de Sanctis (right) was excellent to deny the visitors and protect the three points .
But there were no reports of problems.
2114
The details could be used as 'an invasion guide' by Argentina, with the technical information providing excellent intelligence to any Argentine bombers sent to attack the islands.
2115
'I hope the focus is becoming more about the skills I have,' said Miss Bonas, 26, of the shift she hopes will now happen in terms of how the media and members of the public see her now that she is pursuing an acting career .
2116
But the Nursing and Midwifery Council tribunal hearing in London was told Ms Kennard was not interested in the case, and 'doesn't care what happens'.
2117
'The wedding and photo shoot is a dream for us all and something we had planned for.'
Friends brought three wedding gowns to the hospital for Dong to choose between .
2118
The puffin was spotted swimming in the Grand Union Canal (left) while the species normally reside in Iceland .
2119
The couple’s third child, yet to be born, was created using Mr Lee’s sperm .
After the birth of their third child, the couple will have become a family of three in seven months .
2120
'That's a sort of sports psychology thing, but it means you take shots on that you fancy and if you don't like it you have to play safe.
2121
'Maybe I bowled the odd spell up above 90 that I'm working back towards, but consistently my paces have been the same as they have in the past.
2122
British taekwondo fighter Aaron Cook has confirmed he plans to compete for Moldova at the 2016 Olympics in Rio.
2123
'To our best knowledge, it has been performed in an official competition, with all the rules being followed, even the scramble has been checked for its correctness.'
2124
The Parkhead side have two Friday night fixtures against Dundee and St Johnstone – and won’t play another game on Saturday at 3pm this season.
2125
In 2007, Drogba overturned the one-goal advantage Arsenal had in the 2007 League Cup final through Theo Walcott with another brace, again in Wales.
2126
Iranian officials announced in January that Jason Rezaian, who is the Post's Tehran bureau chief, would stand trial before the country's Revolutionary Court to face 'security charges', but did not elaborate what those charges were.
2127
Neighbor Luis Urbina said the crash woke him up.
Crawford had reportedly been released from prison in August after serving nearly two years for drug convictions.
2128
When new, the Bentley was the world's fastest four-seat car - capable of 120mph.
'It will be fascinating to see the 'journey' the Bentley now takes, as its restoration commences.'
2129
He later took part in a documentary for Portuguese television in which he claimed that Madeleine was dead, that there had been no abduction and the McCanns had hidden her body.
2130
A pregnant woman is helped off a boat at the Sicilian Porto Empedocle harbor on Monday.
Migrants arrive at the Sicilian Porto Empedocle harbor, Italy on Monday.
2131
Ed Downey Jr:
Milband's face is spliced with Beatles lyricist John Lennon in this image which is part of a Twitter campaign to rework the Labour leader's image .
2132
The 11-year-old boy with autism is seen drawing the intricate map of the world from scratch .
Bobitis explained: 'He is the son of one of my daughter's professors.
2133
Remy (centre) also netted Chelsea's winner against Hull before the international break .
Mourinho said Remy has already made a crucial contribution to Chelsea despite not playing too often .
2134
I don't think it's too hard to really realize why I came back.'
Phelps is back in Arizona, where he attended 45 days of inpatient alcohol rehabilitation .
2135
Donald Sterling called her an 'ex-friend' on the witness stand, though he said in recordings that he loved her and wanted to give her everything.
2136
His body was found Monday morning.
Parks friends said that the student had not been drinking the night he drowned nor was he impaired in any way.
2137
When pensioner Margaret Rylance realised her money appeared to be going missing from her bank account, her concerns were put down to her having Alzheimer's disease.
2138
'I still can't get over the fact all these schools accepted me,' he told WTHR.
Whiz kid: Harold Ekeh, from Long Island, was also accepted into every Ivy League college.
2139
It made an emergency landing in Mumbai due to engine trouble, Mid-Day reported.
The plane turned around over the Arabian Sea and returned due to engine trouble, Indian media reported .
2140
The fort, which was found on top of the Dunnicaer sea stack close to Stonehaven, Aberdeenshire, appears to have been built with stone imported from elsewhere in the country.
2141
At yesterday's hearing, prosecutor Joanne Barker told Judge Paul Glenn that Revins was caught by undercover police alongside fellow drug dealer Nathan Davenport, 37.
2142
The London Book Fair Author HQ event, with Kindle Direct Publishing, is a three-day programme packed with informative seminars for budding authors.
2143
Nobody was injured in any of the other incidents.
'It's hard because at this point we have no indication that this person was targeted by a person looking for her.'
2144
He was fined $300 but avoided a conviction, reports Courier Mail.
Mr Philp claimed he had no recollection of vandalising the car and that it was out of character for him.
2145
Usually crew members are forced to go around manually checking for stray objects, using sweeper vehicles to help tidy them up.
2146
Cameras were allowed to film inside MI5 as the boy's dreams came true when they went on a guided tour .
Still at primary school, Finley was one of the youngest candidates.
2147
Michael Pariente, a Las Vegas criminal defense lawyer, says that Stoll will likely be offered a plea deal as a first time offender.
A fan snapped this photo with Stoll on Thursday in California .
2148
Mrs Devereux has had all her lower teeth removed and needed bone grafts.
'But I'm glad I've stuck with it to prove my feeling that the treatment I received was way short of what is expected for a dentist.'
2149
Vietnamese Binh Wagner, 3, and her identical twin Phuoc were left with fatally impaired liver function due to Alagille syndrome.
The post continued: .
2150
A nail housestands in the centre of a construction site which will be developed as a new apartment zone in Chongqing Municipality .
2151
Dybala is wanted by Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal, Inter Milan, Juventus and Paris Saint-Germain .
'For PSG, he would be a good investment for the future.
2152
That is showing in his contender's demeanour of Paul Moloney's at home, O'Brien said.
He has an awful lot of ability, although you don't always get it from him.
2153
It has long been a highlight of the racing calender - and the ladies of Liverpool certainly didn't disappoint  with fashion and drunken frolics once again taking centre stage.
2154
Koppenhaver has maintained his innocence and tweeted that he was also beaten by another man .
Koppenhaver, who has legally changed his name to War Machine, will be tried this fall .
2155
Suarez scores his first of the night at the Parc des Princes - Barcelona's 1,000th goal in European competition .
2156
Janice Kinney (right) said she met Cosby at the age of 24 working in a Reno casino.
She said the comedian then forced her into sex acts.
2157
Nick Clegg will today promise the highest education spending of any party with a £5billion flagship offer to undecided voters.
2158
Harrison has since apologized for his comment.
Harrison said in a series of comments on Twitter that he wanted to apologize 'for my poor choice of words used in jest towards a player I respect and know.'
2159
Off the table: Deep fried and sugary foods are the most inflammatory, and therefore should be avoided .
Tip: PMS is a common symptom of food sensitivities.
2160
Last night, a police spokeswoman said the critical incident response team were on site negotiating with the man.
A woman who lives in the area said the scene felt like 'a movie'.
2161
Rabobank staff went out to speak to the man and he left the area without incident, Escalante said.
Uncanny:
2162
Sheffield Wednesday are ready to offer new contracts to defender Tom Lees and goalkeeper Keiren Westwood.
The boys who have come in to the back four have done well.
2163
Gary Barlow is preparing for his musical Finding Neverland to open and the new Take That tour to begin .
Barlow exclusively told MailOnline: 'I really hope he doesn't leave.
2164
He later confessed that he'd carried out the brutal act 'because he was jealous of men looking at her'.
He now faces life in jail.
2165
Thus, traditional Botox on the forehead alone doesn't improve appearance, but changing the shape of your face and tightening your jaw line, does.'
2166
A 12-year-old schoolboy needed to be rescued after falling down an eight-foot drain in Peterborough .
'Two fire crews and an ambulance were also on scene.
2167
She had a child – Charlie, now 19 – as a result but led him to believe the boy was his, he argues.
Since leaving the BBC in 2006, he has specialised in equestrian sports.
2168
She also met with students who had hosted 16 pupils from Germany, who had been visiting Spain and were travelling back to Dusseldorf on board the ill-fated flight.
2169
'So in the future all healthcare professionals will be required to speak English to a sufficient standard so they can care effectively for patients.'
2170
When she was informed of the bullying incident, Mrs Klein told WHEC this week: 'They didn’t learn any lessons from the other ordeal.
Greece
2171
Lyle Jess' legal wife, Charlene Jeffs, says the church has become worse under his control .
He is said to still head the polygamous sect from prison.
2172
Ricciardo copies his trainer while trying to learn a stance at Guyi Garden in the build up to the Chinese Grand Prix .
2173
Sprouse was charged but not tried for Moreno's death.
'I don't think it's too soon or too long or whatever,' Love said of Sprouse's scheduled lethal injection.
2174
It is believed the fire started in the engine in the car.
The fire caused traffic delays throughout the international terminal due to heavy smoke.
2175
He has had a great career.
I would not say I enjoyed every day of it and it is great he is hopefully coming out in one piece.
Thierry Henry had been lined up but his Sky employers vetoed an appearance.
He was there for four and a half years and believe it or not, when he went to England he was much closer to home.’
2176
So as shoppers make their 83 grocery store trips per year spending about $5,400 on food, what makes a supermarket the best?
50 Albertsons .
2177
Stan, who was the subject of a best-selling book, Perfect Victim, finally escaped with the help of Hooker's wife Janice in 1984.
2178
However Putin has remained tight-lipped about his absence, laughing off the suggestions of poor health - or rumours that he had been attending the birth of a love child - saying; 'It would be boring without gossip.'
2179
But brokers warned that tougher lending criteria meant these cut-price deals were not available to everyone, including older borrowers and the self-employed.
2180
Moeen Ali looked rusty on his return from injury, and Root's bowling was often preferred to the nominally first-choice spinner .
2181
The batsman made his Test debut in 1994 against England, whose team that day was: M Atherton, A Stewart, M Ramprakash, R Smith, G Hick, G Thorpe, I Salisbury, J Russell, C Lewis, A Fraser and A Igglesden.
2182
With this and other technologies, Nasa said in a statement they want to develop exploration capabilities around the moon, and at Mars.
2183
‘Doctors’ leaders also need to sort out the web of misinformation about drug prescribing that has been generated behind closed doors and is costing the NHS hundreds of millions of pounds a year by scaring doctors from using cheap and effective medicines.’
2184
He had been wanted on a robbery charge, according to the New York Post.
David had reportedly been trying to flee through the fire escape, according to NY1.
2185
A different study also published in Monday's Health Affairs found that cancer death rates were lower in countries that spent more on cancer care, and that countries that increased spending the most made more progress in reducing death rates.
2186
Choc on Choc's limited edition chocolates come in three different flavours .
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg (left) has been given a sweet chocolate makeover (right)  with chunks of honeycomb .
2187
However, manipulation wasn't identified as the cause of the crash in a September 2010 report, suggesting that regulators did not see his activity at that time.
2188
A visitor to the cave points at the animal drawings which were modelled identically on those discovered in southern France 20 years ago .
2189
Mr Collier said that the owners loved the combination of the house's proximity to restaurants and cafes, along with the unusually large terrace which makes the property an actual house.
2190
Moving back to the point of view footage of the lead rider, the camera picks up the exhilarating speed in which the group descend.
2191
After the rowers were returned safely to Putney, the sunken eight was recovered and returned to Oxford's base.
For more information, please visit: RNLI.org/BoatRace .
2192
#michaellovesmelissa,' he tweeted.
But while Mr Munday has gained 23k followers on Twitter, others have also taken to social media to express their concerns.
2193
Mohammed Shatnawi bizarrely scored an own goal by kicking the ball over his head at the weekend .
Perhaps Shatnawi did not realise he had as much time as he did to collect the rebound.
2194
In a statement, Assange said the documents deserve to be easily accessible.
Wikileaks justified their move by pointing to lobbying issues they have found in the leaks.
2195
Mary, who wowed in a striking lilac gown embellished with silver beadwork on the first night, was seated beside her mother-in-law during the procession up shopping street Strøget.
2196
Guinean striker Yattara opens the scoring against Bastia on Wednesday at the Stade de Gerland .
Lacazette seals victory and top spot in the French Ligue 1 for Lyon in the second half .
2197
Somewhat surprisingly Tottenham are the only other club Premier League club to have more followers in China than on Twitter – 1,367,140 compared with 1,090,000.
2198
Liverpool players Raheem Sterling and Jordon Ibe have been pictured holding a shisha pipe .
Jordon Ibe has also been warned by Rodgers after the youngster was pictured alongside Sterling .
2199
Andros Townsend enjoyed silencing the critics with his wonder strike for England, saying naysayers like Paul Merson provided the perfect motivation for him in Italy.
2200
'It was clear they just needed to proceed to the autographs because Octavia was not responding well at all to the questions.'
2201
Carrick has played for England for 13 years, 310 days - while Sir Stanley Matthews reached 22 years, 228 days .
vs Spain, February 7, 2007 .
2202
Brown had the honour of lifting the Lennart Johansson trophy as Chelsea followed in Barcelona's footsteps .
He said: 'It's a great tournament, i managed to do quite well.
2203
The UK’s biggest mobile network has announced details of a scheme to help customers keep their mobile phones charged.
2204
But she developed uncharacteristic mood swings and started slurring her speech.
They are hoping to raise £2,000 to go to a private clinic in London.
2205
She said: 'I found out he was secretly going out with the woman who had invited us for dinner.
She said she was 'genuinely taken aback' by the suggestion.
2206
The NFL has reinstated Adrian Peterson (above), allowing him to participate in league activities starting on Friday .
2207
She met that goal by going on a restriction diet and 'exercising like crazy all summer'.
: It’s possible, and what you experience on the other side is a whole new level of freedom.'
2208
London's Olympic stadium may not be a traditional rugby ground, but the buzz around the game is palpable .
I thought he deserved to get back in the England squad and I’m glad they picked him.
2209
Offenders can be fined £200.
During the 13 years Labour was in power, 4,300 offences were placed on the statute book – approximately one every day.
2210
Vincent Kompany (left) believes that a win against rivals Manchester United will help rectify their season .
In some funny way, it wasn't even a bad game [against Palace].
2211
An investigation was carried out by British Transport Police, which found the lawyer had dodged fares since April 2012.
2212
'Juan is a real player.
'Marcelo is pretty cool.
He also made the tackle on our goalline that kept us in the match as well.
We thought we had it in the bag.
2213
Nico Rosberg duels for position with the Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel during Sunday's race in Bahrain .
He was the key to scoring maximum points.'
2214
On Wednesday, a woman and her 7-year-old daughter were found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in their home in East Orange, New Jersey.
2215
Investigators have released these images of football fans who were pictured carrying the wounded on stretchers and tending to others at the 1989 Hillsborough disaster .
2216
Research has revealed that three out of four people have little or no knowledge about the Battle of Waterloo.
It is due to reopen next year .
2217
Put on the backfoot, the unidentified officer justifies his aggressive tone saying, 'I'm just giving you a heads up.
'I don't know why they were so aggressive.'
2218
News of Silva's recovery is a boost for manager Manuel Pellegrini given the club's already lengthy injury list.
2219
'Our focus now is on providing the best support we can to the athletes striving to achieve medal success for Great Britain in Baku, at the upcoming World Championships in Russia next month and ultimately at the Olympic Games in 2016.'
2220
Where's Johnny?
An unnamed source told the magazine that 'it's not surprising' the two aren't spending much time together.
Close friends:
2221
An elderly British couple who fell victim to pickpockets as they returned to their hotel in Benidorm incredibly got their belongings back after confronting the duo - and it was all caught on camera.
2222
The commission also said that one can tell the difference between a sea turtle and a tortoise by looking at the animal's feet.
2223
He allegedly stabbed Mr Rivera, an unemployed musician, with a knife, before fleeing the scene.
Police immediately launched a manhunt for Diaz.
2224
Von Teese, real name Heather Renée Sweet, will team up with burlesque teacher Catherine D'Lish, to offer ranch guests a striptease workshop .
2225
Ings, who has scored nine Premier League goals, is a target for Manchester United and Liverpool .
I always back myself and no matter what step I take next I want to do well.
2226
Blatter commended the work of Putin as Russia steps up preparations to host the 2018 World Cup .
The economic situation is not the best, but I know it will get better.
2227
The fence is the only reason the car vehicle did not topple over into the canyon with Sitko still behind the wheel, police told the Lewiston Tribune.
2228
Mourinho believes that Terry's performance against Arsenal was the best of the defender's career .
'The team was phenomenal, but John was one step ahead of every other player.'
2229
Police were led to Gary after Fleming's cell phone signal was picked up in the city, where the young mother's wallet was also found near an apartment block.
2230
He's a great all-round player and, if anything, he has improved from spending time in France.
The ARU decision has been made in response to an exodus of leading lights to Europe.
2231
An independent review would help to ensure that NHS CEO salaries are fair.
He is also entitled to a £220,000 tax-free pension lump sum after turning 60 last October.
2232
He added: ‘I’m as fertile as sin.
Holpin admits his lifestyle led to 16 of his children being taken into care but says he wants to make it up to them .
2233
The fashion fan appeared to have snapped up a few purchases, as she carried an Intermix bag.
Eugenie has been in New York for the past year, working for an online auction house.
2234
Canyon retreat:
Concealed in the heart of the canyon, the village provides simple shelter for those wishing to witness the stunning landscape .
2235
Sam Allardyce believes Queens Park Rangers goalkeeper Rob Green is good enough to challenge England No 1 Joe Hart for a place in the national team.
2236
Mr Brand also points to the efforts that have taken place on many islands around the world - where species are most vulnerable to extinction.
2237
The PFA has announced its Women's Player of the Year nominees for the 2014-15 season.
She is England's all-time leading scorer with 46 goals to her name.
2238
Police eventually caught up with the men, arresting them.
The robbers can then be seen running across the busy motorway slip road as police give chase.
2239
The Dutch Central Bank, pictured, told a magazine that van der Waal had been fired over 'integrity issues'
It is not clear when she was employed by either institution.
2240
He thought that would keep away particularly Labour supporters from the polls.'
he said to me he was very grateful - it might make a difference of about 20 seats to him.
2241
The robber punched Bishop right back, and that's when she said he managed to steal $280 from the cash register, according to Komo News.
2242
The 67-year-old Democrat will have to find ways to connect with the younger voters as she distances herself from past and present scandals .
2243
Pro-Ukip businessman Harvey Boulter (above), who forced Liam Fox to resign as Defence Secretary, is behind an extraordinary bid to defeat a ‘golden boy’ Tory candidate .
2244
Mar 22, 2015 - La Liga, Barcelona 2-1 Real Madrid .
Mar 2, 2013 - La Liga, Real Madrid 2-1 Barcelona .
Apr 27, 2011 - Champions League, Real Madrid 0-2 Barcelona .
2245
Flamur added: 'It started to happen when they got famous and when I started to post pictures on Instagram.'
Flamur is a university student but also works as a part time model .
2246
'She asked my wife why she was wearing a scarf when it was hot outside - when my wife answered her I thought the woman was asking to be friendly,' Mr Bhatti said.
2247
Barcelona's Champions League quarter-final first-leg win over Paris Saint-Germain has been lauded by the Spanish media.
2248
They have both sold a combined 118.69 million units worldwide.
When the original Game Boy was released in the US, it sold one million units within the first month.
2249
Rangers boss Stuart McCall has been reassured that the decision to remove the club off the London Stock Exchange will not affect his squad's promotion push.
2250
Vicious: With a total population of about 50 million, South Africa is home to an estimated 5 million immigrants who are now being targeted by brutal gangs (pictured)
2251
Pay day:
Monbeg Dude was given the all-clear to run in the Grand National at Aintree after a poor showing at the Cheltenham Festival.
Ecstatic:
2252
Perak Mufti Tan Sri Harussani Zakaria said women should never say no to their husbands - and claimed marital rape was 'made up' by Europeans, so there was no need for Muslims to take any notice .
2253
Tamerlan himself was killed in a police firefight a few days after the bombing, which he masterminded.
Bruck downplayed the gesture, saying Tsarnaev was 'acting like an immature 19-year-old'.
2254
But a survey of workers has also revealed working for government departments - long considered an easy ride - are among the jobs people would most like to have.
2255
Various social media users posted images of a clearly-defined spout working its way through fields - though it is not clear whether that was the same spout captured in Cole's video.
2256
Uptegrove testified that Kelly Robarge told her she was heading to court to file for divorce.
2257
She said that chatting to men online made her feel good about herself.
She called me up after meeting him for the first time, saying it was love and that he was moving in.
2258
Ennis-Hill will return to hurdling at the Great City games in Manchester in May .
'I'm not happy about how the ban has been handled,' she said.
2259
A memorial service is scheduled for Wednesday at Discovery Park, which will be closed to the general public on that day.
2260
However, despite being one of Liverpool's star men, Sterling has struggled to repeat the impressive form he showed for the Reds last season.
2261
Too similar: Logo for the Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club .
Son Jamie, a former England polo player, is now involved in the commercial side of the club and has plans to take it into a new modern era .
2262
Up in smoke: The drone operator looks on as the machine crashed into a field as it went to make an asparagus delivery to a top Dutch restaurant .
2263
Everton manager Roberto Martinez expects Gibson to return to pre-season in the best possible shape .
The squad is big enough to cope with these problems.
2264
Schoolboy Bradley Parkes, 16, is fighting for his life in a coma after a suicide attempt.
'When he was held at knifepoint we decided enough was enough and went to the police.
2265
Turkey said Pope Francis has caused a 'problem of trust' after describing the mass-murders of up to 1.5million Armenians by Ottoman Turks in 1915 as 'the first genocide of the 20th century'
2266
What's wrong with kids??'
Officers in Manchester (GMP headquarters pictured) believe 'sleeper' is a new craze and have alerted parents .
2267
Texas A&M, Galveston, professor Irwin Horwitz emailed his strategic management class of about 30 students telling them he was going to fail all of them because of the bad behavior he had seen during the semester .
2268
Gruelling:
He ran for 30 hours in heat topping 50C through the desert, but had to lie down intermittently to continue .
'I had some really shaky moments.
2269
He said the victim's parents had chosen not to press charges against the operator, saying it was an accident.
2270
Saying he had a 'pretty rough day' Saturday, he added during an interview with CNN that he was forced to zip a dead body into a sleeping bag.
2271
Palermo's long wait for a second away win came to an end with a 3-1 win at Udinese.
Atalanta ace German Denis celebrates after scoring in the win over Sassuolo in Bergamo .
2272
The report said that Wang would not be able to 'establish an effective relationship with a defense attorney or to organize himself in a manner that he could be meaningfully understood by others' in his current state.
2273
Plano High instead told her she could participate in a small summer ceremony, according to the Dallas Morning News, yet she is desperate to take part in the real thing.
2274
'In Perth we're aware of a couple of parasites.
Pet owners who have dumped their aquarium fish in rivers are the culprits behind the invasion .
2275
Guilty:
Historic:
Davies could face a prison sentence for illegally altering the Tudor manor house, one of whose bedrooms is pictured .
Marble:
2276
Andy Kunz, president of the US High Speed Rail Association. told the Los Angeles Times that maglev trains have proved to be expensive, power-intensive, and potentially unsafe.
2277
Their loss of income saw Victoria take on more hours as a shop assistant, but the desperate couple then had their benefits cut.
2278
Indigenous leaders have also been highly critical of the state government's plans, which could involve the forced removal of more than 1000 people.
2279
Some systems came back online shortly after 9am, but other users continued to report the glitch or slow performance throughout the morning.
2280
As the football calendar approaches the business end of the campaign, EA Sports are already looking towards next season as they begin to take close-up shots of football stars for FIFA 16.
2281
'When it will be done is no longer a question,' he said.
News.com reports the Attorney-General’s spokesman also indicated that of the 10 death row prisoners only one legal matter was now outstanding.
2282
She said she knew he was planning to kill her and he may well have succeeded if Donohue hadn’t made a crucial mistake that would alert police to his troubling behaviour.
2283
Powered by a fierce determination to prove herself, Turia Pitt is fitter than ever, embarking on a ferocious fitness program in a bid to compete in the 2016 Melbourne Ironman.
'I'm not looking for people who are looking at me.
2284
But the trio have been recalled by head coach Alan Solomons for the Madejski Stadium clash with the Exiles as the South African looks to name is strongest XV.
2285
The international airport, which also goes by the name of Daxing Airport, is the second busiest in the world, after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport which saw 96 million passengers pass through it last year.
2286
Events at Hampden on Sunday forced him to revise his opinion.
The blame for what happened lies, he believes, with the officials who created the mess and then closed ranks to insist they simply hadn't seen it.
2287
The records revealed she died at the Graylingwell Hospital on February 24, 1909, at the age of 74.
She went on to pose for at least 60 of his artworks.
2288
Diego de Girolamo (right) is leaving Sheffield United at the end of the season when his contract expires .
2289
The modern-day clock has since been certified by the Guinness World Records, which the National Maritime Museum confirmed on Twitter .
2290
Neighbours complained about Mrs Cartwright's loud screams .
'I mean I was in the same prison as people like Rose West for making a noise when I have sex.
2291
The crowd tried to storm the club Tsunami in the Chilean capital Santiago.
Seven people are in a critical condition according to Dr Mario Henriquez.
2292
The study showed that couples are shunning religious ceremonies when it comes to their big day with services falling from 40 per cent to 35 in the past five years.
2293
'But does not the SNP candidate in this constituency tell the truth, that what they want is an SNP vote not to deliver social justice but to deliver the chaos and constitutional crisis at Westminster to as she said force a second referendum.
2294
The police and bomb squad were called after the four-propeller, 50-centimeter wide drone, was spotted by member of the Prime Minister's staff, on the roof of his principle office and residence in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo.
2295
City captain Kompany, 29 on Friday, would be a huge loss despite his patchy form this season.
Pellegrini added that his men were still using a certain ex-United manager as motivation.
2296
The Emirates Airline logo will be a familiar sight for sports fans across the world.
Dubai World Cup .
Collingwood FC .
Dubai Tennis Championships .
2297
Park Hyatt, Saigon .
Within the historical district and close to the beautiful Bodegas Marques de Riscal, the five-star hotel has 43 chic guestrooms.
2298
The 99.7 per cent accurate BioSure HIV Self Test enables people to test themselves when and where they like.
2299
However, I must point out that delisting will have no effect on our overall financial strategy.
‘The investments we expect will still be made and Rangers will be rebuilt on schedule.
2300
With half an hour to go, Wolves should have been 2-0 up but Wigan had keeper Carson to thank for blocking Dicko as he ran through on goal.
2301
Michu recently said he did not know whether he would be returning to Swansea after his spell at Napoli .
2302
Elsewhere, Mr Kyte said that because Ms McTernan has limited use of her legs the steering system instead is controlled by her head.
2303
Baywatch star Jeremy Jackson, pictured in January, has been arrested after a man was stabbed in the chest with a knife .
He was immediately arrested at 7:15am.
2304
She won an Oscar for playing a disturbingly violent inmate of a female mental institution in 1999's Girl, Interrupted, before going to refashion herself as a leading action star, with roles in Gone In 60 Seconds, Tomb Raider, Mr and Mrs Smith, The Wanted and Salt.
2305
6.
Over half (54 per cent) of us have lost friendships through moving, while 36 per cent say that over time they grew apart from close pals.
2306
Edinson Cavani strokes the head of a male goat at the animal sanctuary he visited after Barcelona defeat .
2307
Making a somewhat inelegant landing in the snow, the bird clutches onto the mouse with its claws, all the while being captured on film .
2308
A warrant has been issued for the arrest of the Bethesda resident.
During an interview with police, the 26-year-old sensei admitted to trading and receiving child porn.
2309
Pakistan's next fixture is against Bangladesh on Wednesday in Mirpur.
But the off-spinner is free to resume bowling in international cricket after testing in Chennai .
2310
'I want him to celebrate his 21st birthday,' she wrote on Facebook, 'but I'm being realistic'.
18. Be dazzled by the Vivid Light Festival .
2311
Now with the ever expanding number of digital radio services and growing numbers of people choosing to listen to internet radio, it seems likely other countries will follow Norway's example.
2312
Adam later told the BBC: 'I never knew I had that much power, to beat a quality goalkeeper like that is something special.
2313
A study found women compared themselves to their friends on Facebook rather than celebrities in magazines .
2314
Canadian actor Jonathan Crombie died on Wednesday night in New York after suffering a brain hemorrhage.
He really enjoyed the series, she said, adding that he was 'very proud of it'.
2315
I don’t think we would ever host another one.’
Bubba Watson was recently voted the most unpopular golfer on tour by his fellow professionals .
2316
A New York woman has worn the same ensemble to work every day for three years.
According to Matilda, the criticism has done nothing but reassure her of her choices.
2317
Factor in the remarkable rise of academy graduate Harry Kane and it is easy to see why some sections of supporters have written Adebayor off as surplus to requirements.
2318
Local campaigners vigorously opposed to the bridge are calling for a parliamentary inquiry into the scheme ahead of a crucial judicial review next month, the Observer reported.
2319
Horrified: Lynette Duncan, one of the surviving daughters of Aubrey Duncan, still remembers telling her sister that her father and Denise were dead, she said .
2320
Germany captain Bastian Schweinsteiger returned to team training on Monday but he is also doubtful to start having been out for weeks with an ankle injury and a subsequent virus.
2321
This is 64 per cent (£153,488) more than in nearby areas.
Waitrose has carefully cultivated its upmarket image, proving popular with middle and high income families.
2322
The motorway officers had been standing on the hard shoulder on the M5 in Gloucesteshire at night after pulling over a driver, who they suspected was speeding.
2323
#realisticYA.'
Another girl writes about the realistic possibility that teenagers might be too frightened to confront their romantic interests .
2324
Chinese hospitals are harvesting up to 11,000 organs from political prisoners without anaesthetic every year, according to a new documentary.
2325
Mr Osborne said he was 'delighted' that the series had been shot in Britain.
Sources close to the company say that without the incentive, it would have been filmed in Ireland.
2326
The film, also named Check It, explains how many of the youths have been stabbed or shot at, while others have served time in juvenile prisons .
2327
Snake catcher Tony Harrison warned that if the large-predatory boa has Inclusion Body Disease 'it can be unbelievably contagious if that gets loose in Australia'.
2328
Mr Collett has been milking snakes for almost 10 years but has never extracted venom from a king cobra .
2329
And there are no two baseball teams that are greater, or more storied, than eternal rivals the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox, who come in first and second respectively in terms of the number of people who claim them as their favorite.
2330
Sherwood admires Bent's goalscoring capabilities, but the striker was sent on loan to Derby before he came .
2331
'Outdoor music festivals and concerts where thousands of people are clustered together in close quarters can be a breeding ground for infections and other health problems,' Dr. Kevin Campbell tells DailyMail.com.
2332
The whole town is excited about the local tennis star returning to tie the knot .
The local papers have dedicated their coverage to the happy couple .
2333
The 1986 World Cup winner was surrounded by media and cameraman as he applauded his fans .
'We can run after a ball but peace must be won by you because you truly deserve it.
2334
He told nufcTV: 'I don't think I could play 90 minutes in the coming weeks, so it will be maybe as a substitute at the end of the game, but I don't know if I will be on the bench...
2335
Wilshere has always maintained that he wants to remain at Arsenal for the rest of his career.
Transfer fee: £7m.
Fee: £25m.
Arsenal: none.
2336
Mayweather (left) has been preparing for his mega-fight against Manny Pacquiao on Saturday .
Justin Bieber holds up a belt for Mayweather before taking on Miguel Cotto in May, 2012 .
2337
Clinicians in an ‘impossible situation’ as a result of King family’s flight to Spain after disagreeing with doctors .
2338
The family were later told that they ‘were out of options’
Miss Nelson died on February 2.
Ms Lowther suggested ‘you would put it down to blood loss’.
2339
But it was not until 1953, when British tea producer Tetley spotted the commercial potential of the bag, that it began to take off here.
Local families adopted the dish, and the name stuck.
2340
Franck Ribery was convinced to reject Real Madrid after being sold on his importance to Bayern Munich .
I don't know what price Bayern wanted them to pay.
2341
Police interviewed the tourist, identified by Chinese media as Debra Fortin, and ruled the death an accident .
We also accept the apology.’
2342
Gooden said the designers wanted people to know what they were standing in when they stepped into the home .
2343
Armed response:
Dangerous:
An arms embargo was imposed on the Iranian-backed Houthi forces by the UN Security Council earlier this month.
2344
A vision in green: Sam Cam (centre) adds a dash of glamour as she applauds her husband while seated between George Osborne (right) and William Hague (left)
2345
Just weeks after Rony's death, the school also cancelled swimming lessons for all older pupils.
Tributes were left at the scene, on the bank of the river, following Rony's death.
2346
In the last-16 round, he was chosen for the Basle vs Porto first-leg clash that ended in a 1-1 draw where he controversially - but correctly - ruled out a Porto goal and handed out nine bookings.
2347
Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, told the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva that if reports are true, BGoko Haram have committed crimes against humanity .
2348
In the absense of Pesci, it was left to Liotta, who played mob informant Henry Hill, to recall how his co-star's famous 'Do I Amuse You' sequence was almost entirely improvised.
2349
According to the experts, Bond's depleted uranium wound would have been fatal as it 'would have turned his lungs inside out and killed him'.
2350
Truong then called police to report that he was watching the boy, who they found safe, sound an unhurt at his home.
'He was a great kid.
2351
However, the Norfolk District Attorney's office said Friday following Boudreau's death that they are seeking to arraign Fahey again and charge him with murder on Monday morning, according to CBS.
2352
'Bastian and Franck will not be with us against Porto.
Bastian Schweinsteiger lies injured on the pitch during Bayern's 1-0 win against Borussia Dortmund on April 4 .
2353
Scotland Yard confirmed today they had finished searching the centre, one of several locations they searched in the wake of Mr Arwani's death.
2354
But that doesn't apply to Lionel Messi.
Messi celebrates after scoring the second goal of his hat-trick against Real Madrid in March 2007 .
2355
Rita's own collection is also inspired by her passion for music, with one polish in her range fittingly being named 'Glastonberry'
2356
How are you ever going to get a real f***** job to support your son with a tattoo on your face?' she asked.
'It's not funny!' Ashlee continued.
2357
Giles' family told ABC News that she opened her eyes, and soon began following her father's movements around the room.
This is no surprise however to her family.
2358
‘We’ve said to the players we can only influence our own games, but it’s another point to our tally and another game chalked off,’ he said.
2359
Technology industries are said to be suited to people with autism because of how they respond to gadgets and software.
2360
Steve Clarke 7.5 .
Took a whack to his nose in a early collision with Mackie but recovered to be the dominant figure in Arsenal's defence.
2361
Colleen Harris testified that she couldn't recall the events leading up to his death because of traumatic memory loss.
2362
The photo shows a beautiful young tiger cub in the hands of a freelance rebel fighter, known as Ahmed Shaheed.
Shaheed preferred the tiger despite it costing more money.
2363
These photographs, many taken by soldiers, show the true horror of the doomed Gallipoli landings during World War One, which claimed the lives of 140,000 troops in eight months of fighting before they eventually withdrew to North Africa in January 1916 with no material gain .
2364
Following the incident, an emergency custody hearing was held and she lost custody of her five children, who are aged four, six, eight, 10 and 16
2365
The post continued on a second page, she said it is never acceptable to speak to someone else in that manner .
Just wanted to clarify that.'
2366
The prank backfired when he accidentally ran 'screaming and yelling' past a group of police officers, the Sydney Morning Herald reports.
2367
At that point, Lawson 'reacted in a very loud way' to what was happening and stabbed Mr Myers with the steak knife he was clutching.
2368
‘My body can’t train at this level any more,’ she said, ‘In Kenya [where she did a winter training camp] I pushed myself too hard and I broke down.
2369
Authorities estimated last week that the ship was currently leaking between five and 10 litres of fuel into the sea per hour.
2370
The clip begins with one of the Pogue family, who recently adopted Uno, tentatively holding him before the two pets are introduced.
2371
Brisbane based DJ-duo Mashed N Kutcher did just that when they offered a keyboard and microphone to members of the public and invited them to bash out a melody.
2372
The defender’s performances have not gone un-noticed among the division’s top sides, with Chelsea and Manchester City supposedly eyeing a deal for Cresswell in the summer.
2373
Jerusalem syndrome affects people visiting the holy city.
Of these, 470 were admitted to hospital.
Dr Rego, agreed the condition may not be unique to Jerusalem.
2374
Chiswick RNLI station manager Wayne Bellamy said: 'This incident showed once more that the tidal Thames can catch people unaware.'
2375
Six months earlier he had been spotted on a canal in Liverpool dressed as a German submarine commander.
The total amount came to £1,017,505.
2376
In a tweet after the incident, State Senator Shane Massey said the train appeared to have crashed into a tree on the tracks, derailing two locomotives and at least a dozen cars, WJBF reported.
2377
LeSean McCoy's acrimony with Chip Kelly continues to rumble on, with the Buffalo Bills running back taking another swipe at the Eagles head coach.
2378
But under the new changes, Twitter has added a middle-ground.
For months Twitter has been rolling out features designed to rid the site of the scourge of trolls .
2379
Family and friends lay flowers at the victim's home and have since set up a GoFundMe page to help raise money for her family .
2380
Other top ranking 'cleaning sins' include leaving hair in the plug hole, only changing bed sheets once a month and letting exploded food in the microwave fester.
2381
Memorial:
Mourners in Miami heard from 10 speakers who recounted the life of Dr Brandt and how he loved the nickname 'The Baron of Botox.'
2382
Not once but twice
.
Locals were trying to coax the herd of elephants back into the forest when one suddenly became violent .
2383
'As the saying goes, breakfast is the most important meal of the day - and there's lot of prestige within the industry to be named as the home of the best breakfast in the UK.'
2384
In fact, if your summer look is all about glamour then Irina's gold plated pair is the ideal option.
Karen Walker gold round frame sunglasses at Farfetch .
2385
He also said that Hallisey, of Cardiff, had been the victim of violence himself when younger and now had a good partner who was standing by him.
2386
Rosewood Hotel London .
Known for an avant-garde style, in his signature black, the designs are every bit as sleek as the hotel interior .
2387
Based on these findings, we calculated that this eight per cent fall would translate into two million fewer visits to A&E each year if weekend opening was made available nationally.
2388
When I spoke to McCluskey, he downplayed his hardline socialism, instead talking about the need for investment in industry and the economy.
2389
His mother said she had a vision that somebody 'reached over ... has gone `clump' on his shoulders, picked him up and moved him on ... because ... that's the only way ... to explain for him not to be there.'
2390
Jordan Speith, pictured during his final round on Sunday, is in prime position to win The Masters, taking a four shot lead into the final round at Augusta .
2391
Elsewhere is Spain, Mundo Deportivo hail Barcelona coach Luis Enrique for statistically being 'the best coach in history in his first 50 games.'
2392
Creepy:
Now hundreds of disembodied toys are stacked on the shelves.
Treasure trove:
The studio in Rome is a antique-hunter's dream.
Macabre:
2393
‘It is not going to be the same,’ he said.
‘It is not positive to play games with half a team and lose 5-1 and 6-1,’ said the Celtic boss.
2394
Pochettino (centre) decided to leave Southampton in order to take up the reins at Tottenham in the summer .
‘I want to be honest person and do my job.
2395
James said Friday she was heartened by the rights commission's finding.
Green Dorsey, meanwhile, says she's eager to get into the gym.
2396
The 35-year-old shows his frustration as the young prankster makes a swift exit .
Green congratulates the Aston Villa forward at the end of the game as QPR strive to beat the drop .
2397
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg today revealed he struggled with maths at school, as he prepares to launch his election manifesto which will promise to balance the nation's books 'fairly'
2398
But Rodgers has been boosted by the news that Jordan Henderson (left) has committed his future to the club .
He is a fantastic player for us.
2399
'But they may have made a mistake in leaving this footage behind.'
Instead, a private security guard is understood to have made a cursory check of the building.
2400
A woman in China showed her strength by using her legs to lift a group of people.
The woman holds two people on a plank of wood and starts lifting them up and down with her legs .
2401
Her presence at the games did not go unnoticed.
The last game the retired school bus driver saw was on November 30 when the Chiefs played the Denver Broncos.
2402
Doctors warn the figures mean we may be headed for a recruitment crisis, as there is already a shortage of doctors in many parts of the country .
2403
Each bungalow has an expansive private deck, complete with private plunge pool overlooking the water .
2404
Tottenham will take on the very best players from Major League Soccer when they compete in the 2015 AT&T MLS All Stars game as part of the pre-season preparations in the summer.
2405
The speed of it, plus two players blocking his view, made it unbelievably hard for him to get all three right.
2406
But a new haul of previously unseen letters show that he was in fact a slightly caddish womaniser who had a string of affairs without ever settling down.
2407
Police are investigating in Benjina and will decide whether to prosecute those involved, said Kedo Arya, head of Maluku province prosecutor's office.
2408
Despite the snowfall, surfers continue to flock to the area which is unique for its mix between a heavy military presence and pleasure seekers .
2409
His daughter can be heard screaming as she runs to help, but she is pushed from behind by a young girl and slams face-first into the concrete .
2410
Meanwhile, a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge is set to decide if Stiviano must return gifts to her ex Sterlung after he and his wife Shelly took her to court.
2411
The Navy has been beefing up its presence in the Gulf of Aden and the southern Arabian Sea amid reports that about eight Iranian ships are heading toward Yemen and possibly carrying arms.
2412
'Fortunately for him, the lions were asleep and the zoo guards acted quickly enough to prevent a tragedy similar to that in Delhi.'
2413
Southampton striker Graziano Pelle insists his confidence hasn't been destroyed despite no scoring in the Premier League since December 20.
'For Southampton I got the chances, but I didn't profit about it.
2414
An Indian farmer hanged himself from a tree in the middle of a public protest over land rights after telling onlookers he could no longer afford to feed his three children.
2415
Candlestick Park is no more.
It was later said that the design of the stadium saved the thousands of fans who had turned out for the game.
2416
The criminal told reporters after his hit-and-run arrest that his illegal speeding was because he was afraid of being shot by someone who pulled out a gun and said, 'Nothing is ever forgotten.'
2417
On the House side, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said today that he will bring the Corker bill to the floor if the Senate acts on legislation giving Congress the power to review any deal .
2418
And with all the passion of a convert I became so keen on the fresh water and splashing about with ducks I was determined to swim there all year round.
2419
In a separate video, the men and women respond to common misconceptions about people who sleep on the streets.
'Get back on your side of the bridge, no one likes you'
2420
The devoted mother said that she will definitely tell him about his time in prison when he gets older.
'I’m not ashamed because I’m proud of who I’ve become,' she said.
2421
'I got a boot right in the head and they said 'Shut up you Abo', and I could hear Eathan … getting knocked out cold,' he said, according to Fairfax Media.
2422
Muthana was not named in full by Buzzfeed, but her identity was revealed on Monday by the Birmingham News.
Raqqa, Muthana's new home city, is pictured above.
2423
The Baltimore case surrounds a carjacking and robbery.
Cabreja  said Hailstorm can identify phones from an antenna from about a city block away in distance.
2424
No damages were awarded.
She fell pregnant with their first daughter before she was arrested and with their second after she was released .
2425
She says having eyebrows tattooed on (pictured right) has given her the confidence to face the world again .
She said: ‘It was like my face changed overnight.
2426
German referee Marija Kurtes officiating a women's Bundesliga match in Munich last month .
German referee Kurtes is understood to have been sent home following her error on Saturday .
2427
First, Celine would like everyone to abandon whatever assumptions they've made about prostitutes.
Plus, she explained, she can't erase her history in the sex industry.
2428
'It [the freezing] provides the opportunity for Matheryn to breathe again when the technology is provided and appropriate for her disease,'  said her father, who found out about the cryopreservation firm on the internet.
2429
And in the age of the start-up, government has to make life easier for people to get going.
It comes down to this: we have come a long way in the past five years.
2430
'It seems Mr Humphries became mentally unwell and his wife decided the relationship should end.
'She managed to call the police and the matters were admitted in interview.'
2431
Bournemouth are set to hold off on expanding the capacity of their 12,000-seater Goldsands Stadium - as a tactic to help them next season.
2432
Once Ms Barnes' stools were approved, they were mixed with water and filtered.
Experts deemed the procedure is 'safe enough to be used in the NHS'.
2433
'I had no friends and they were the only people left to talk to.
He was sentenced to three years' detention in a Young Offenders' Institute.
2434
Inspiration:
He told the magazine that his new leaders’ club was needed because only former leaders truly understood leaders, he said.
2435
She had been stabbed, wrapped in plastic and soaked with bleach.
Police determined the child was Fleming's and the baby was returned to relatives in Indianapolis.
2436
By two years-old, one in five boys and one in ten girls was overweight or obese and children who had taken antibiotics as young babies were particularly likely to be overweight (file photo)
2437
Baggies striker Saido Berahino wore Astle's No 9 shirt during the Premier League match at The Hawthorns .
There will be a piece of work about head injuries and football.
2438
Smith-Walker pictured above in photos posted to her Facebook .
The guard eventually freed his arm and the young women were arrested not far away from the shopping center.
2439
A series of pictures by German artist Jörg Düsterwald show body-painted models camouflaged in woodland .
Jörg has also painted models into a number of other backdrops.
2440
Nagvanshi was said to be unhappy that her husband's parents had stopped their son from doing chores around the home.
2441
Defence barrister Henry Hughes said the father of three accepts responsibility for the death of a man who deserved no harm at all.
2442
He briefly threatened midway through the third session with his first sustained attack but Warrington finished the stronger.
2443
He said facing Simeone was 'honour and a problem' and picked out Atletico Madrid's resilience when asked what their greatest quality was.
2444
In 1998, Oberhansley, then a teenager, was imprisoned for killing his 17-year-old girlfriend .
The blade was allegedly recovered from the scene after the grisly death.
2445
I would have liked to have got a run into him (before the Grand National) but he had an abscess on his sinus in January/February time which took a while to find out where it was.
2446
It was given as a gift to two sisters who worked as servants for the Nightingale family at Lea Hurst, near Matlock, Derbyshire.
2447
Machida gets ready to remove his sauna suit to make weight before the fight on Saturday .
Machida earlier told Sportsmail he hopes victory over Rockhold would lead to a title shot.
2448
Ashley Young scored in Sunday's 4-2 derby victory over Manchester United .
The 29-year-old has revived his career in recent months under Louis van Gaal .
2449
Josh Dall-Leighton, 30, saw the message on a trip to the Maine Mall with his family, according to the newspaper and called the number.
2450
The Juarez Cartel eventually lost the conflict after three murderous years, and today its agents are spread widely across Chihuahua state.
2451
The only exception was a 3-2 defeat at Stoke and even then they nearly clawed back a 3-0 deficit.
At least the Ings effort was something for England manager Roy Hodgson to note down.
2452
She said he had showed her a clip on his laptop of his appearance at the Pride of Britain awards before trying to instigate sexual contact.
2453
Oskar Groening added that it was ‘unimaginable’ to him that Jewish inmates would leave the camp alive.
Oskar Groening is being tried on 300,000 counts of accessory to murder.
2454
Houthi forces initially advanced towards the port area, but hours later had been pushed back several streets towards an army base.
2455
Amanda explains that she hopes to empower people and also encourage others to think before they speak.
'The film will be made no matter what,' she says.
2456
Derek Skyler Brux, 22, was sentenced to five years probation for taking a train from a coal mine and crashing it into another train last fall.
2457
Sherman Bynes is one of the defendants whose criminal case has been dismissed.
The three fired officers are disputing their termination from the force and are trying to get their jobs back.
2458
There has also been Nani, Sir Alex Ferguson, and plenty others.
Gareth Barry, formerly of Manchester City, turns up at Wing's for Rooney's birthday with his girlfriend .
2459
With his eyes closed and grimacing with effort, Pacquiao ramps up his shadow boxing routine on Monday .
He has some skin marks on his knuckles.
Pacquiao is 36.
2460
The wall in Ms Walker's room had a deep hole in one of the panels .
'We just want to warn others – this is a reveller place, not for families and that should be advertised.'
2461
Prime Minister David Cameron and his deputy Nick Clegg were superimposed over Christopher Steed and Stephen Webb, two men from Brighton who appear on Channel 4 series Gogglebox .
2462
Burnley manager Sean Dyche says his side have had to compete with the smallest wage budget in the league .
Everton (Home) - May 2 .
Leicester (Away) - May 24 .
We've got players in decent form.
2463
New information from Nasa's Mars rover Curiosity, published in the journal Nature, shows that it is possible that there is liquid water close to the surface of the red planet.
2464
He said: 'I was not trying to catch anybody out.
'I did not look at the footage on the Friday afternoon when I picked the car up.
2465
Cracks at the side of the mouth are a sign the body is low on vitamin B6 .
BLEEDING GUMS .
Citrus fruits are a rich source of vitamin C.
2466
Riches has been accused of dropping MDMA in a woman's drink at a club so that he could have sex with her .
2467
Eighty years on, the Queen yesterday gave out Maundy coins in the pre-Easter tradition.
The Queen will also appear at church in Windsor on Easter Sunday .
2468
He is now sitting in second place in the Kent constituency, 1 per cent below his Conservative rival Craig Mackinlay and only just ahead of Labour.
2469
It has a somewhat ominous name, but the U-Boat Worx design is a somewhat intimate way to explore the ocean beneath your superyacht.
Ocean dining!
2470
Lady Gaga (left) and Lourdes Leon (right) have both adopted the trend .
But in the UK, America and Australia, it is mainly used as a fashion trend and to create a hippy or rebellious look.
2471
Rosberg's attitude seems to have changed in the aftermath of his crash with Hamilton in Spa last August .
He can be ‘nasty’ as Niki Lauda said of him.
2472
The United States government only admitted to this experiment in 2010, which was run by Dr. John Cutler (above)
I was floored,' she said at the time.
2473
In 2009 it was reported that Marmite had been banned from Dartmoor prison in Devon because inmates were using it to make super strength hooch.
2474
Inter Milan will propose a loan with view to a permanent £15million deal for Manchester City misfit Stevan Jovetic.
2475
Left to right: Rowan Kamal Zine El Abidine, Sami Ahmed Kadir and Ismail Hamadoun .
The conflict out there is fierce, so medical help must be needed.’
2476
The children's paternal grandparents say they are worried Kassab, 28, is 'brainwashing' the children, after their father was killed near the Syria-Turkey border last year, The Herald Sun reported.
2477
Beitzel said the Mennonite family 'had no idea what they were doing was wrong'.
Akron police didn't charge Steiner, but they did educate him about the proper transportation of animals .
2478
Sutton got jockeys to sign several of his programs, which he proudly displays in frames at home .
Above, some of the tickets Sutton has collected from the Kentucky Derby since 1940 .
2479
Trains can become busy during big sporting events such as this and we would urge fans to consider other passengers at all times.
2480
Ms Whitehouse said: 'Carl Beatson wasn't so fortunate.'
She added that Okafor had been part of a larger group which set upon the victim's smaller group at around 5am.
2481
On Thursday, the kids were nowhere to be seen .
Matching in green, Vonn and former Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice applaud during the Par 3 contest .
2482
But smoking of traditional cigarettes plummeted to about nine per cent.
The CDC study also revealed that about nine per cent of teenagers surveyed said they had tried hookahs.
2483
Homicide police investigator Tom Hogan - the police informant in the murder hearing - leaving the Melbourne Magistrates Court on Monday .
2484
There aren’t any serious bids for the player.
While Koeman says that Schneiderlin's season is over, the player himself has not given up on making it back before the end of May.
, he is stalling on signing.
2485
As a result, I will not be dumping you [lucky you],’ he wrote in red pen on the cover of the test along with some feedback.
‘I salute your boyfriend!
2486
ACTU President Ged Kearney said the business community are using the Easter break as a justification to attack penalty rates by saying it's unaffordable to hire more workers.
2487
Ahmed Gaddaf al-Dam, a former minister and Muammar Gaddafi's cousin, said the 'overwhelming chaos' in Libya 'has become a shame that will haunt the countries that had participated in the destruction of the Libyan armed forces in 2011'.
2488
The couple revealed they plan to serve drinks in personalized Burger King cups .
But even now, after at least five years together, the ribbing has not subsided.
2489
I think not,' was the manager's retort.
Herrera gave the scoreline a realistic edge when he burst forward into the penalty area once again to fire past Guzan.
2490
And he would have taken the hint when he saw Juan Mata moved out that there would be no special favours from the manager for his creative players.
2491
'Liverpool 4, Newcastle 3.'
Stan Collymore (third left) smashes home Liverpool's fourth past Newcastle goalkeeper Pavel Srnicek .
2492
Public land managers are desperate to reduce the most recent 'significantly rampant population' of the pest, which causes millions of dollars of major agricultural and environmental damage each year.
2493
Louis van Gaal says the prospect of facing Aston Villa scared him more than the idea of taking on Manchester City at Old Trafford.
Jose Mourinho is doing it now.
2494
He is accused of being involved in a plot to fix lower league football matches .
Facey (right) is alleged to have contacted a non-league player via WhatsApp to fix matches .
2495
The stiff breeze coming off the Moray Firth was enough to give Griffiths the chance to beat Gary Warren in a race for the ball.
2496
Ancelotti is willing to make a final decision on Hernandez once the season is over .
'The future of Chicharito will be evaluated at the end of the season,' Ancelotti said.
2497
Keszler 'strongly believes' that a cure for HIV is on the horizon and hopes to make as much noise about it as possible via his glittering event .
2498
Prince Ali, a current FIFA vice-president from Jordan, said he could envisage a World Cup being played in different countries - or even in different confederations - in a similar way to Euro 2020 which is being played in 13 nations.
2499
However, the study of twins found identical twins were more likely to vote the same way than the non-identical twins.
2500
In a February ruling, Benton County Superior Judge Alexander Ekstrom found that Stutzman's refusal to provide flowers because of sexual orientation violated Washington's anti-discrimination and consumer protection laws.
2501
’ Sherwood watched his Villa side in training as they prepare for the Sunday's crunch clash .
He would also like to take the goalkeeping shirt off Brad Guzan in the Premier League.
2502
Mouscron, in Belgium's Pro League, had a partnership with Lille but the French side are now poised to link up with another Belgian club, Ostend, leaving room for a new deal and Chelsea are the preferred option.
2503
Mr Miliband wants to scrap the tax break, describing it as ‘indefensible’.
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg accused Labour of ‘playing Russian roulette’ with the economy.
2504
Although eating cat meat is illegal, police officers and lawyers are among Vietnam's biggest customers.
'The best cats are aged two and a half years old and weigh 2.5 kg.
2505
The teenager wanders past the monkey, who eyeballs him from a ledge as he gives it the middle finger .
2506
The unnamed pilot declared an emergency, but the plane crashed shortly after in a wooded area close to the runway, before bursting into flames.
2507
Mario Gomez has poured cold water over suggestions he could join Barcelona in the summer by insisting he is content with life at Fiorentina.
2508
A telescopic tube that scans the lungs for cancer is being used by NHS doctors, cutting diagnosis time from days to just 30 minutes.
2509
Lawyers for Guede are likely to argue that the two sentences are incompatible, forcing a revision of his conviction.
Guede is eligible for day release this year.
2510
Meanwhile, world No 1 Serena Williams has no such problems as she heads into Saturday's final against Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro carrying an unbeaten 17-0 win record in 2015.
2511
But the IFPI also noted some dark clouds ahead for the . industry, including the impact of free delivery of music over . Internet sites such as YouTube and dailymotion.com, and the . desire of Chinese consumers to get their music for free.
2512
Banksy is believed to have started out as a graffiti artist in London, although his identity remains shrouded in mystery.
2513
Derelict: An overturned bath tub as it was abandoned (left).
It was designed by Joseph Potter in the style of a Georgian mansion at a cost of £35,000.
2514
The animal was controversially captured during the annual dolphin hunt in the town of Taiji in January.
2515
Mauricio Pochettino believes Europa League participation could hamper Tottenham's top four hopes .
'The Europa League is difficult.
2516
She had told police Carr sexually assaulted two young girls in 2006, when he was aged just 14, but no further action was taken.
Heart-broken:
2517
This was the second time that Asma has been attacked in Sydney in four years .
Asma is pictured here with refugees in Jordan, she also volunteers at the Islamophobia Register Australia .
2518
Bristol City manager Steve Cotterill celebrates promotion with a commemorative bottle of champagne .
Flint celebrates after making it four for Bristol City with a brave header .
2519
As part of her ongoing initiative to get Americans 'moving' in their own neighborhoods, the first lady is asking school children across the country to participate in her garden challenge .
2520
Jolie listens into the discussion on Syria and the plight of refugees in the Middle East on Friday morning .
She has been a UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador since August 2001 .
2521
The eggs have now been withdrawn nationwide ahead of the Easter break.
A real Cadbury mini egg (left) is seen against a decorative plastic egg from Poundland .
2522
But here the story could have ended had it not been for Major Leonard Berney, the new commanding officer of what became Belsen Camp for Displaced Persons.
2523
Around three years ago, Mr Goddard's daughter Cally, 15, created a Facebook page for him.
Former soldier Mr Goddard says his life is now 'complete' after seeing his 27-year-old son .
2524
Cody was covered head to hoof in mud after being dragged to safety, but - despite being shaken by the ordeal - was otherwise unharmed.
2525
Snow supplies about a third of the state's water.
But he has come under increasing pressure to be more aggressive as the state enters its fourth year of drought.
2526
He may now be looking for a new job.
She assured Daily Mail Online in an email that no one fro, the Trump camp had asked her to delete the tweets.
2527
Mourinho said: 'I told John Terry in the dressing room that he made fantastic performances with me in six years but for me this was the best I have seen from him.
2528
She said that Kandrick was 'really rude' and blamed his workers.
'Maaco will not touch my car now,' she said.
'I said to him, "My husband will not handle me at all"'
2529
But on Thursday evening 7 News captured the moment when he was finally arrested by police.
The man meekly does as he is told before being taken away by police .
2530
However, he ordered the Buckett family to pay the council an interim payment of £150,000 in costs by May 4, a figure which could climb as high as £260,000 after further assessment.
2531
To the question 'Are there too many immigrants in Britain?' the email says that 72% responded; 'I am not understanding the question please.'
2532
By Joanna Biggs .
Joanna Biggs makes it bleakly clear that for many people today, 'the idea that good work brings a good life no longer holds'.
2533
The couple put a yoga-themed twist on the traditional Leaning Tower of Pisa pose .
Honza and Claudine do their best ninja warrior poses in front of a backdrop of green hills .
2534
Other tennis guests include coach Amelie Mauresmo, former assistant coach Dani Vallverdu and two of his three best men, brother Jamie and former Davis Cup player Ross Hutchins.
2535
'Drug-resistant infections are harder to treat and because Shigella spreads so easily between people, the potential for more – and larger – outbreaks is a real concern.
2536
It then shot to the back of her throat when she took a puff .
Alison Hall, 48, was at work when she felt her chest tightening and took out her blue salbutamol inhaler.
2537
The fires in Benghazi have gone out, but not the Republican Party's zeal to tarnish Hillary Clinton's political legacy with new questions about how it happened and why some details were allegedly covered up .
2538
Walter Scott, left, was killed by Michael Slager, right.
She also expressed her sympathy for Walter Scott's family, the man her son shot dead.
2539
a tree - intercept intense rain and slow run-off, helping reduce risk of floods .
a perennial plant - reduce pressure on drains which can lead to flash flooding .
2540
Adam D Modlin, president of the Modlin Group, is in charge of the listing and says there is no other apartment in the neighborhood to rival Moore's.
2541
British Airways suffered three plane diversions in just over 24 hours.
Three planes into Heathrow were diverted meaning long delays for passengers at the weekend .
2542
His defining nights included his win over unbeaten American Jeff Lacy as he unified the titles in Manchester.
2543
Director Michael Redwood said Peter O’Toole was certainly not the type to let illness interrupt his career .
Katherine’s voice had to be most haunting in its delivery.’
2544
The Passport Office said it could not say how many claims were rejected, partly because of ‘the system failure of our customer complaint database’.
2545
Investigative journalists looking into possible exaggerations told by Brian Williams about his reporting are focusing on another episode from the NBC broadcasters career, his time reporting in Egypt.
2546
The home has what boat owners would call a narrow 'galley kitchen', an expert has said, with the estate agency calling it 'well proportioned'
2547
Charlie Austin, in action against Chelsea on Sunday, has scored 17 times for Queens Park Rangers this term .
2548
He said: 'It was revolting.
People were screaming.
Merseyside Police said it received two calls about the incident, both reporting a fight at the site.
2549
2014-15: Wales .
A statement from the Football Association says the move 'ensures consistency with a key element of the England DNA', with the move borne out of the desire to aid development by facing opposition from further afield.
2550
A burglary suspect arrested at a crime scene in Alabama managed to escape by driving off in a police car despite being handcuffed.
On searching the property police found the 28-year-old suspect inside.
2551
'As Deputy Prime Minister he delivered tax cuts for low earners, more jobs and apprenticeships, and ensured real investment has come to Redcar after decades of neglect by Labour and the Tories.
2552
The London 2012 gold medallist is unbeaten in 10 professional bouts but yet to go past round three, while Gavern is walking into the ring for the 50th time in his career.
2553
Despite Bamford stealing the limelight, however, Middlesbrough head coach Aitor Karanka praised the effort of his team.
‘Everything is going to be tighter.
2554
Feathery:
This rabbit enthusiast was captured next to a mirrored building on the New York street .
In bloom: These colorful headpieces were typical among the revelers .
2555
But now it has emerged that the peer was apparently well enough to sign his name in an April 9 note to Lords authorities.
Lord Janner signed on April 9.
2556
Although he has worked over the 13-year period, all the jobs have been on short, fixed-term contracts.
Mr Davies is not the first luckless candidate to struggle finding a job.
2557
The couple's friends have now set up a fund to financially support them during the two-month recovery period when they will be unable to work.
2558
This sophisticated little summery frock has a sweetheart neckline, which curves down to show a bit of cleavage and then rises up to cover the breasts on either side, striking the perfect balance between flirtiness and discretion.
2559
'It's important for us to be in touch.
One of the potential problems we have to deal with is people are now overly optimistic.'
2560
Mr Worthington's mobile phone records showed he had sent a text message at 1.04pm that afternoon, the same time the crash happened.
2561
Broadcasters could miss out on millions if viewers illegally stream the bout via apps like Periscope (pictured)
2562
According to the ICM poll for the Guardian, the Tories have jumped three per cent in the last month – while Labour has dropped two points.
2563
Maret said an anonymous tip about the ceremony at Meza's home on Duke Drive - which also operated as Iglesia Internacional Jesus es el Rey Church - where several other church members also lived, led to the investigation.
2564
The BBC faced angry criticism last night for giving an Election platform to a ‘mini Russell Brand’ who has mocked David Cameron over his disabled son.
2565
'Like all teenage girls I had this ridiculous fear of growing up and becoming just like you,' Kelly Osbourne wrote in her letter, republished on Yahoo Parenting.
2566
'I don't remember the accident at all,' Redman told 11 Alive.
Redman and Huber
After weeks of physical therapy, Redman resumed coaching.
2567
Canterbury coach Des Hasler has apologised on behalf of his club over the actions of some fans after objects were thrown.
We will work to find the culprits!'
2568
And Parlour believes that the 23-year-old’s fitness record is the one thing holding him back from reaching his undoubted potential.
2569
She said the bird's skin had healed around the arrow and made the process more difficult.
Animal care workers say vets did all they could to save the duck and that the death is a tragedy .
2570
Alonso trains under the watchful eye of manager Pep Guardiola who is keen to add to his Barcelona victories .
2571
McMahon said the stun gun was believed to be ineffective because of the man's loose clothing .
However, she insisted that he is a great father who did not deserve the brutal beating.
2572
He helped develop young talent too.
Sherwood (right) salutes Emmanuel Adebayor during his time in charge of Tottenham Hotspur last year .
2573
Career:
CBS This Morning Anchor Gayle King said Schieffer's announcement 'stunned'
He and I have been talking about this for a long time.'
2574
She was due to return home to Australia on Wednesday.
Several groups of climbers were also said to be trapped at Base Camp which was severely damaged.
2575
He added: ‘Any man who can reverse the greying process I’m jealous of. ‘
‘The Prime Minister has other things to think about, he’s just not like that.’
2576
Blues boss Jose Mourinho has given his squad the confidence to perform, according to Willian .
2577
Lubitz was responsible for the worst air disaster in Europe in recent history, as both black box flight recorders have no confirmed .
Wreckage:
2578
A house used by five generations of the same family has been put on the market for the first time in 100 years.
It was originally rented by Len and Beatrice Barnes (above) in November 1915 .
2579
Taylor Davis, 20, was seen in the Kissimmee, Florida store, touching himself and possibly following a female shopper on Tuesday by a worker who called police.
2580
‘Then when he came out as transgender, they sent a letter out to all the parents in his year to explain he now wanted to be referred to as a boy.
2581
Later that month he received another anonymous text saying: 'Your wife has three husbands, two white and one black.'
David with Ndey on the day of their wedding .
2582
His community service under the plea deal must take place at . a Habitat for Humanity project in Palm Beach County.
Cohen said most of the items he was accused of .
2583
Flying in formation:
Breathtaking:
Praising Mr O’Dell, Harry said: ‘My first landing in a Spitfire – it was quite good!’
Two thumbs up:
Success:
2584
Allie's Twitter bio reads 'I met Beyonce [left] at Top Shop and life will never be the same', and the young blonde also appears to be quite the fan of One Direction's Harry Styles (right)
2585
For example a girl from new Rescue The Anorexia Girl game has started to renounce meals and even tasty cakes cannot save the situation.
2586
Liverpool's Raheem Sterling is an Arsenal target who also has his contract expiring in the near future .
2587
'It's difficult when growing is considered illegal and the police are still taking (away) medicinal cannabis .. but we'll keep going.'
2588
I also found the soleplate scaled up quickly.
It’s powerful, too — delivering an impressive 180g per minute shot of steam.
It also has a vertical steam option.
2589
However, as a result of this fixture, all Championship clubs have been invited to submit a request should they wish to move games to the Sunday.
2590
Mr Miliband added that she was a 'very successful environmental lawyer' who has recently had her 'biggest case which was about defending Columbian farmers from the might of BP'.
2591
'I know some may find this silly but I love Cape Breton and moved home to give back.
Others said they would appreciate such as policy as a means to get a peaceful, relaxing dinner.
2592
The coalition was also having to deal with lower commodity prices than the Howard government enjoyed, he told ABC radio.
2593
Traffic patterns suggest the fake data was shared among members of the syndicates to vet its validity and subsequently shared elsewhere on the Dark Web, beyond the original drop sites .
2594
But he feared his tactical master plan was set to be for nothing when the Chelsea boss was told that the Manchester United man was not playing by the doorman at the club's hotel.
2595
A Russian Emergencies Ministry ship looks for survivors after the Dalny Vostock sank.
Early reports say the trawler sank in 15 minutes when its engine room was flooded .
2596
He also insists that his tattoos are real, and has gone so far as to prove the designs are permanent by filming himself washing up, in order to show that the ink doesn’t come off when scrubbed.
2597
'Lucas we know is a dangerous player.
Barcelona forward Lionel Messi controls the ball during the training session ahead of the game against PSG .
2598
It comes as it was revealed that Mr Miliband has hired a 'leadership consultancy' firm which coaches people to look 'authentic' and cope with anxiety, it has emerged.
2599
Root admitted that the flat pitch made it too easy to score runs and too tough to take wickets .
Speaking after the match, Root lifted the lid on the tourists' frustrations.
2600
Waheed Ahmed  looks relaxed as he begins his journey back to the UK after being caught trying to sneak into Syria with eight family members .
2601
The designer has been chanelling her passion for fashion into Lipsy ranges for several seasons now - and her success shows no sign of abating as she unveils yet another stylish range .
2602
Yesterday Prince Charles gave a moving reading about troops weeping as they left their dead comrades behind when they left Gallipoli .
2603
Mr Holloway told The Mirror that he arrived at the Palace and was shown into a room containing a piano and two microphones.
2604
The rocks are 190 million years old, and visitors are reminded to respect the beautiful environment .
Grand Prismatic Spring, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming .
2605
Instead, most trades are listed for a  ‘Buy it now’ price and the seller can give buyers the option of making them an alternative offer.
2606
One US Navy SEAL died and another was critically injured on Friday while training in a pool at a Virginia military base, a Navy spokesman said.
2607
The British driver was set to start from the back of the grid after he broke down in qualifying.
'The engine is not broken,' said McLaren chairman Ron Dennis.
2608
Jerry's apology did not exactly impress the TV star.
He had as much emotion as the customer-service representative who tells you your bags missed the flight,' she penned.
2609
Perth Glory will be excluded from the A-League finals after breaching the salary cap over three seasons .
FFA staff head to Perth's offices to conduct a salary cap audit.
2610
Henriques, pictured in the Big Bash (left) and in ODI action for Australia (right), will join after the IPL .
2611
They've all been really supportive,' he told Bayern's official website.
'I'm not ready for 90 minutes, I felt tired after 10!' he added.
2612
Hellyer described several types of aliens including 'Tall Whites' who are working with the U.S. air force in Nevada.
2613
Islamic State also claimed responsibility for two car bombings in Baghdad that killed at least 27 people on Friday.
2614
Barcelona defender Alves has been sounded out by Manchester United over a move to Old Trafford .
But Alves' camp say now is not the time to name the club.
2615
West Indies cricketer Devendra Bishoo will play against England in the second Test .
'In our squad's practice match he bowled long spells and got results.
2616
And with McIlroy trying his luck, it may only be a matter of time before Circular Soccer is played at a park near you.
2617
Queensland men Sam Komba, 20, and Foday Kamara, 29, both face one charge of conspiring to import a controlled substance, according to ABC.
2618
Officials confirmed that Mr Ellis had a UK passport and had lived in Australia before moving to the seaside area of Sanur, Bali with his wife.
2619
Durst ends his letter to Hennessey-Fiske by saying that she is probably aware of her ability to visit him once he returns to Los Angeles.
2620
In 2012, £157million was spent on cancer research by government bodies, down from £267million in 2008.
2621
Brave Inca is often described as an equine version of his famous jockey who showed the same grit and determination to hold off the challenges of Macs Joy and two-time defending champion Hardy Eustace.
2622
West Sussex coroner Penelope Schofield yesterday issued a report expressing concern over the Bednest Bedside cot, which was endorsed by the charity National Children’s Trust, saying urgent action must be taken to prevent future deaths.
2623
He said she kept repeating the words 'Fargo, Fargo'.
The story of Takako, which sprung from the outlandish tale of Fargo, was based on a misunderstanding .
2624
'Big Hero 6' won the Oscar for the best animated feature in February this year, and its popular character Baymax has a won big following in China after it was released in February.
2625
Provisional squad: Green, Isla, Onuoha, Caulker, Hill, Phillips, Sandro, Barton, Kranjcar, Austin, Zamora, Hoilett, Grego-Cox, McCarthy, Henry, Doughty, Sutherland.
2626
My sister is so relieved and the family are ecstatic.
Mr Carn handed himself into the British Consulate this afternoon, after walking for 20 hours to find safety.
2627
‘To be on 85 points is sensational.
Joe Garner (right) netted a first-half goal to double Preston's lead and set them on their way to a perfect win .
2628
But Labour has said if it wins the election, it will issue new guidelines stipulating all motorway speed cameras are yellow and any existing grey ones will be painted.
2629
'The SPA is offering its help on the condition those holding the owners decided to put these dogs in better accommodation after they have been used purely as objects for hire.'
2630
Since its construction in 1895, its high walls housed some of the country's most dangerous criminals whose uprisings ended in death and mass-injury.
2631
Wayne Rooney and Louis van Gaal took consolation in defeat after Manchester United's performance in the 1-0 loss at Chelsea.
I think we played a fantastic match, but we lost.'
2632
Shadow Welsh secretary Owen Smith has expressed regret that the party cannot ‘get rid’ of the Trident nuclear deterrent .
2633
'The only concern that I have ever spoken about is that I was recruited to play as a striker with Ibrahimovic and it has not always been the case.
2634
A new hard-hitting campaign is aiming to highlight the misery of homeless women who are unable to access proper sanitary care.
2635
Warmongering:
To commemorate the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, a special edition aviator jacket has been produced .
2636
Miss Sturgeon insisted a vote for the SNP did not mean a vote for a second referendum.
‘The leader of the Scottish Labour Party will not be in charge of the UK budget,’ she said.
2637
Now, debt organisations have warned that parents should not be afraid to ask their children for rent and money towards household bills amid fears the British ‘stiff upper lip’ makes them reluctant to admit when they need help.
2638
Many say the authority was too quick to penalise motorists without first warning that their car was not taxed.
It is a money-making scam.'
2639
Shannon Dooley has founded 'Retrosweat' - an Eighties-inspired aerobics class in the style of Jane Fonda's iconic workouts .
Fit and fun:
2640
It has been viewed more than 4,000 times.
The grisly sound of Vader's breathing is so iconic that it even has a trademark - or, rather, a 'soundmark'.
2641
However, Cuban dissident Guillermo Farinas said civic groups . in Cuba have been sidelined from talks and appealed to Obama to . support their push for more democracy.
2642
Callum is conscious of how lucky he is to be healthy and able to complete a marathon.
‘The most frightening thing about CHD is that there is no cure at the moment.
2643
The fighter jet is some 70 years old and was reconstructed from more than 200 parts by a father-and-son team .
Vertigo-inducing flight:
2644
The group's founder, Mariam Veiszadeh, told Daily Mail Australia incidents of abuse against Muslim women were becoming increasingly common.
2645
Speaking after Obama, Murthy asserted that hotter weather 'can mean worse air in cities, and more smog and more ozone,' in addition to more wildfire smoke.
2646
Supposed leaked images of Manchester United's (left) new adidas kit for next season have been  online .
2647
Mr Farage warned that foreigners arriving in the UK 'has directly contributed to the housing crisis'.
But Mr Farage retorted: 'The real audience are sitting at home.'
2648
United Launch Alliance has unveiled radical plans to launch a reusable rocket named 'Vulcan' in 2019.
This is roughly half the cost of ULA's current Delta 4 Heavy rocket.
2649
On Saturday - the day which English and drama teacher Ms Scott was set to marry her fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley - a memorial was held to honour the late bride-to-be.
2650
In her questioning, Ms Milne also alleged The Australian was run for ideological purposes.
The paper was reportedly hoping to half that loss in the 2013/14 financial year.
2651
The newest generation of beauty products will be personalised to meet all your particular needs .
It's not just make-up that is increasingly becoming tailored to your personal needs.
2652
The video, titled ‘Nothing worse than opening your car door and feeling something furry’, was uploaded to social media on Friday.
2653
One of their fellow missile officers who was a target of the same investigation pleaded guilty to illegal drug use in January and was kicked out of the service, the Air Force said on Friday.
2654
Sinfield, 34, the greatest captain in Leeds' history, stunned the world of rugby league with his sudden announcement that he will quit the sport at the end of the season and join the Rhinos' sister club Yorkshire Carnegie on an 18-month contract.
2655
Her story hit the press as she became Britain's youngest sex-swap patient.
'I knew I was a girl inside, and to me, it was that simple.'
2656
Tributes have poured in for Evita Nicole Sarmonikas (right, pictured with friend Sherri Burton) after her death in a Mexican hospital last week .
2657
KOAT reported Barrientos-Hinojosa fired a single gunshot.
Police pulled over the car not too far from the gas station.
It was a scary situation for him.'
2658
After hitting the jackpot in Saturday night's Lotto, he went in for his 4am shift at Caledonia Produce the next day and told his boss he was quitting.
2659
Only five men have won all four of golf's majors in the Masters era, those being Jack Nicklaus, Tiger Woods, Ben Hogan, Gary Player and Gene Sarazen.
2660
Former sports minister Gerry Sutcliffe said today that the new allegations do not justify a new inquiry in to the disaster.
He was 61.
2661
He added: ‘Our society cannot longer cope with bankers that are hell-bent on criminal acts, leaving shareholders to pick up the tab.’
2662
The FBI confirmed it found images of a 'pre-pubescent blonde girl' that appear to show her being sexually abused, which could have been taken 'in America or elsewhere.'
2663
The video was recorded in Auckland, New Zealand.
The fly appears to give up hope but eventually the video maker intervenes and sets the creature free .
2664
Basking in the sunshine:
Two women tuck into strawberries in front of the Royal Crescent in Bath, but cooler conditions are expected from Thursday .
2665
It has been revealed police spent £16,000 on hunt to find cancer sufferer Ashya King .
Patricia King, 77, said: 'It's disgusting to spend all that money when there's crime going on.
2666
His disappearance only emerged last year, four years after he had walked out of the prison in Arundel, Sussex.
He left the prison without permission in February 2006.
2667
Nicolas Leoz (Paraguay) - £1.33bn .
Spent on: Two cash lumps allegedly linked to Warner’s support, and then his silence, over corruption.
2668
These bogies are fitted with on-board sensors, including two lasers and a digital camera.
While the system may seem creepy, it could have important applications for bomb disposal teams.
2669
Haskell posted the image on Thursday along with the message: 'Avengers movie is out so thought i would release the inner Iron Man. @UnderArmourUK #TransformYourself #IWILL #AvengersAgeOfUltron.'
2670
A hotelier claims to be living in fear after her windows were smashed and she received intimidating phone calls after appearing on Channel 4's 'Four in a Bed' criticising other hotels in the area.
2671
The ritual, locally known as Chutiya Manda Puja, is organized every year to 'protect the village from natural calamities and epidemics'.
2672
Paris St Germain, Juventus, PSV Eindhoven and Feyenoord have all made contact with the midfielder's father Marcos after the 19-year-old rejected United's opening offer.
2673
Mrs Morgan said Mr Osborne’s freeze in fuel duty, which has been extended for four and a-half years, had saved the average motorist £680 and was one of the Coalition Government’s biggest achievements.
2674
The family, who live in Much Hadham, Hertfordshire, began to process this frightening news, wondering what treatment Stacey would now have to undergo.
2675
He bungled a yellow but was reprieved when Walden blazed the green off the table.
‘But if you’ve got aspirations to win it’s going to hinder you later on.
2676
Despite what police called a 'thorough and professional investigation' at the time the killer has eluded capture, leaving her broken-hearted family without justice.
2677
Miracle mammals: You can spot dolphins at Cardigan Bay - the dolphin capital of Britain .
Puffins .
Details: www.norfolkwildlifetrust.org.uk .
2678
A masked ISIS militant announces to the crowd that the men (pictured) have been sentenced to death by an Islamic Court 'for waging war on God'
2679
Joy Smith: He's turning blue.
Joy Smith:
Smith's 911 phone call was played in court .
Prosecutors said Luna internationally pulled the trigger.
2680
Lewis Hamilton Mercedes 1:37.219 .
Sebastian Vettel Ferrari 1:38.339 .
6.
Felipe Nasr Sauber - Ferrari 1:39.032 .
Marcus Ericsson Sauber - Ferrari 1:39.751 .
2681
'It wasn't until I started doing hot yoga that I realised I was dissatisfied with myself, so I started looking for something to help me relax and that is when I found Easy Loss - it was just a complete fluke.'
2682
In the film, Nicole Kidman plays a woman named Suzanne Stone, who becomes involved in a relationship with a teen, played by Joaquin Phoenix .
2683
Now — with Emre Can and Martin Skrtel both suspended — Rodgers is set to bring in Lovren after opting for veteran Kolo Toure ahead of him at the weekend. ‘
2684
Vicious:
On Thursday, she turned to social media again to apologize for her actions, saying it was an 'intense and stressful moment' for her.
2685
Binky said that faux fur is one of her top tips for achieving Chelsea street style .
She is known for her simple but chic looks and her love of statement eye make-up on a night out.
2686
Accounts assistant Hiral added that although it had been an emotional experience she had been eager to help her struggling brother.
2687
For Lisa, Pokemon isn't simply a cartoon, the programme really helped her through a very difficult stage of her life.
'I love Pokemon now.
2688
More missing features in Paris included the impressive Arc De Triomphe.
The ruins at the Inca settlement of Machu Picchu in Peru have made the area a bucket list favourite .
2689
In addition to his work on Good Times, Powers also played the character of Moochie on CBS detective drama Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer between 1984 and 1985.
2690
Close encounter:
The only other pocket shark was a female adult about 17 inches long; it is believed that adult females may be larger than males.
2691
United agreed a deal worth around £15million last summer which allowed Real Madrid to first loan Hernandez for the season then buy him outright before other clubs could bid.
2692
Thiago Silva - 5.5 - Injured early on and replaced by his compatriot David Luiz.
Subs not used: Bravo, Pedro, Rafinha, Bartra .
Bookings: Pique, Messi .
2693
Noisy:
Her purr, which is almost four time louder than the average cat, has been keeping other animals awake at night.
2694
Dressed in a smart grey dress, she appeared at City of Westminster Magistrates’ Court and spoke only to confirm her identity.
2695
She said: 'Because Peter's lips are wet, the saliva can make me react.
Amena Warner, nurse advisor at Allergy UK said: 'Urticaria is also known as nettle rash or hives.
2696
Members of the Oath Keepers provide security at the Sugar Pine Mine outside Grants Pass, Oregon April 22, 2015 .
Federal agents ultimately backed down.
2697
Caught in the middle: Sarah Guyton was caught in the centre of the increasingly acrimonious dispute .
'It was a nightmare,' remembers Ms Bourne.
2698
Video footage shows them getting into the groove with an attentive audience watching on.
At one point Nikki's father makes an appearance, in keeping with traditions .
2699
'Kelvin Davis is a very experienced goalkeeper who played very well against Burnley.
Koeman said he will wait for further updates on Forster's condition before making the decision .
2700
Then on a visit to a brewery in Cardiff yesterday, Mrs Cameron, 43, pointed to a glass of Welsh Black stout she had been handed, and said: 'I normally just drink this when I'm pregnant.'
2701
Pierre Collins was phootgraphed Monday being placed in the back of a squad car in handcuffs and taken away from his apartment complex in Crystal.
2702
She added: 'I think some foreign media are more sensitive about the topic compared to local media.
'I don't really know the reasons why people have brought these things up.
2703
I think one should stop playing when goes onto the field and you see that you are no longer the same person,' he added.
2704
Pottery in these areas were etched with drawings of fanged teeth and human trophy skulls.
One theory is that the movement of the mummies may have helped create a sense of equality among the community.
Pottery in these areas were etched with drawings of fanged teeth and human trophy skulls.
Pictured is the Cotahuasi Valley .
2705
A secret camera filmed the exchange, where the 52-year-old teacher - who had showered the pupil with gifts and money for a year before he ended the relationship - said she wanted the boy to slowly bleed to death before she 'finished' him.
2706
Authorities are looking for the driver of a white, recent-model Nissan Altima captured on video at the car wash the same time the girl was abducted.
2707
A pub landlord who was convicted of drink driving after claiming he was sleepwalking and was not drunk has vowed to never drink again.
2708
Lota is currently recovering from his fourth surgery and, according to his Facebook page, already has his next helf marathon scheduled for May 30.
2709
In most studied cases these songs are produced in response to predators but they also duet together in social song.
2710
This squad is really young and we've been playing together for a long time,' he told Goal.
'They have won almost every match they played recently.
2711
All these players here are undervalued, in my opinion.
The Selhurst Park manager believes selling one star for big money can help rejuvenate an entire squad.
2712
This is the moment a young boy's dream came true when he met his hero R2D2 at a Star Wars convention and the pair danced along the corridor together.
2713
AP McCoy’s last chance of a National winner before he retires has evaporated after Benvolio, his intended mount in this afternoon’s Coral Scottish National at Ayr was withdrawn.
2714
This might numb the pain of an injury, but it could also explain why video games can be addictive, he added.
2715
Joe Root celebrates his century and is 118 not out at stumps on day three of the second Test in Grenada .
My movements are very good at the minute.
2716
Muller meanwhile was let off the hook, claiming it was Corrales who jumped on the hood of his car after telling him; 'Get out of the car tough guy.'
2717
Rodgers will admit he ignored the warning signs but had hoped Balotelli was maturing as he got older .
Aston Villa (A) Won 2-0, January 17, 2015 Reason: Illness .
2718
The BBC has made light of Jeremy Clarkson's attack on a junior producer by poking fun at it in a comedy show .
2719
Have I text him to say well done (over the QPR result)?
Sherwood admitted his concern at Villa's injury list as he looks to lead the club away from relegation .
2720
The shooter tried to ram the gates before firing at the guard at least once, according to reports.
But the gunman trail of violence continued back into DC.
2721
The 44-page document was commissioned by executives at the BBC who then hired an agency to research how smiley faces could be used in news stories and on social media .
2722
Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams (pictured) said that the person responsible for leaving the gun attended will likely face charges in relation to the shooting, which has shocked residents in the city .
2723
'Chelsea is one of the best clubs in the world, so I don't see why I would think of leaving.
Jose Mourinho has largely favoured other players to Oscar in the second-half of the season .
2724
TMZ reports the NHL player passed through security on his way to the Wet Republic pool at the Las Vegas hotel when a security guard found a 'pink baggie' filled with 3.3 grams of cocaine and 'gel-caps' containing 8.1 grams of Molly.
2725
It is also an image that makes the fatal crash on a rain-soaked road all the more tragic - the devoted siblings died within hours of each other.
2726
A Russian biker gang, which Vladimir Putin  describes as his 'friends', has camped out on the Polish border after being banned from entering the country for a World War II memorial ride.
2727
'I was cautioning the parents against allowing racial stereotypes to impact their behavior and that of their child,' he said.
I think not.
Q:
2728
Dijana Wolffram, a local who is friends with the woman who found the note, said the letter created a few laughs among other residents when she posted it to a community Facebook page.
2729
Its auctioneers were delighted when a pair of 1930 Cartier art deco ruby and diamond brooches recently sold for £482,500, far outstripping the presale estimate of £80,000 - £120,000.
2730
Sunderland's Adam Johnson was recently arrested on suspicion of sexual activity with an under-age girl .
This is a special game.'
2731
The NHS is superb and I've seen that in my own life in so many different ways. ‘But I believe in choice, I believe in people being able to do what they want to do, and as I say I've only got one thought about the royal baby which is a happy and healthy arrival.’
2732
Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has attracted both criticism and applause for her controversial decision to wear a headscarf during her visit to Iran.
2733
Players from the under-6 to under-11 age groups joined the Blues' senior stars for a training session  at the Halewood complex, with the fun-filled occasion including games of head tennis and shooting drills overseen by manager Martinez and his coaching staff.
2734
It has been linked to several alleged sexual assaults over the years, including the rape of a Hong Kong tourist in Leeds, according to the Guardian.
2735
Anderson says there is no hiding when facing Catalans Dragons, who have the league's best defensive record .
I expect a tough physical encounter on Sunday.'
2736
Relationship issues and sexual problems are also high on the agenda for discussion down the boozer.
The Secret Life of the Pub will be shown on Thursday.
2737
The freed Yazidis were taken away by ambulances and buses to receive treatment and care .
Yazidi families embrace after ISIS let them go.
2738
A Twitter account claiming to be linked with anti-Islam groups has mocked protests being held around Australia .
I dun get it,' one tweet from the account read.
2739
One illustration shows a mother driving, with tears of panic streaming down her face.
Another image depressingly shows a couple dressed to go out without their baby.
2740
He said: 'We fully deserved the victory and the three points.
But I have just got to get on with it because nobody else is going to do it.'
2741
In total, Harkin signed six cheques to Slocombe over a six-month period.
He never did.
'She came under Lee Slocombe's spell.
You were not duped.'
2742
A cloud formation resembling the Wi-Fi symbol appeared in central China last week .
The unusual astronomical phenomena appeared above Hainan province in 2013 .
2743
According to Motortrend, the current recalls is not the first such major incident for Mini Coopers in recent years.
2744
The brave village watchman stands on guard with his stick as the leopard moves towards him .
2745
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger branded the 'circus' around Klopp's decision as 'ridiculous'
'It's down to every club to make the right decision and to respect Dortmund,' he said.
2746
6am - Miss Lawrence fails to arrive for her shift at work .
Mr Harris - now aged 47 - is released from bail after providing information to detectives which has progressed the investigation, police say .
2747
Last year, he appeared before a US Senate panel that accused him of endorsing products that were medically unsound.
2748
He said the ship's cleaning crew found the bodies when they checked on the couple after not seeing them for a while.
It was unclear exactly when the couple died.
2749
McClaren came down from his position in the stands unusually early to bark instructions and rearrange his side with George Thorne needing to come off injured on his return from a spell out.
2750
Simon Danczuk, the Labour MP who exposed Cyril Smith, said the weight of criticism against Mrs Saunders suggested something has ‘clearly gone very badly wrong’.
2751
The injured child, who turned 11 Tuesday, was later released home with 40 staples on his head.
Dog owner Martin Tidwell said that what happened to the 9-year-old was terrible.
2752
If I ever spoke to him again, I'd just want to know why he did it.'
He added that his deceit had nearly brought the long-established organisation to its knees financially.
2753
'It is a top question, top question... but because I am always honest in my answers, I cannot answer you,' Mourinho replied, cunningly.
2754
Lord Ashcroft said the study showed Ukip’s vote was being squeezed since the same seats were polled last year.
Labour’s conclusions are false.
2755
As a man, she had married and fathered a child .
She separated from her wife after deciding she could go no longer without changing her identity.
2756
It is the disease the medical community refuses to accept, and most experts claim is just a mental illness.
'A serious and often deadly systemic infection is present in Morgellons samples.
2757
He can aim to reduce his own golf handicap and there is also another sporting challenge to conquer.
McCoy said: ‘The fear of retirement is going to get worse in a month or a year.
2758
Swindon (4-4-2): Foderingham, Branco, Ricketts, Turnbull, Byrne, Kasim, Stephens, Luongo, Gladwin (Swift 78), Michael Smith, Williams (Obika 69)
2759
Benaud was a daring captain and became the first cricketer to score 2,000 runs and take 200 wickets in Tests .
He defined an era with conviction and sincerity'.
2760
Rodriguez made a run on the outside and as the defenders were dragged one way, Ronaldo dropped his shoulder the other and beat Oier who could only flap at the ball as it whooshed past him.
2761
In an open letter Boyle added that the BBC wanted to 'deliver the flavour of political comedy with none of the content'.
2762
Carlo Ancelotti is starting to feel the strain after recent poor results at Real Madrid .
His team have lost almost one out of every three matches in 2015 (six defeats in 19 outings).
2763
He is on loan from Manchester United .
But for now, the Champions League semi-finals are the home of their former players, rather than their current ones.
2764
Renée Zellweger at the age of 36 in 2006 (left) and now at the age of 45 (right)
Baywatch star Pamela Anderson at the age of 35 in 2003 (left), now at the age of 47 (right)
2765
After failing to serve out the match at 5-2, Kvitova converted her first match point in her following service game with a passing forehand shot.
2766
.
'I think that him being as quiet as he was, made her so much more protective of him.'
Why?
And all I saw was Mark, and he didn't care.'
2767
PC Stuart Kenway told how, as O’Riordan had opened the door, he ‘appeared calm and composed and the situation was surreal’ as he then said: ‘She is in the bedroom – do you want the knife?’
2768
The Labour candidate in Britain's most marginal seat was last night accused of failing to tell voters that she met Vladimir Putin in Moscow two years ago when a controversial billion-dollar arms deal was signed.
2769
It has not been made clear if police have tried to get in contact with DMX or whether the license plate has been traced to him or his entourage, according to NJ.com.
2770
October 2013 - Indio Downey sent to rehab for prescription drug abuse .
Last June, a 20-year-old Indio (seen here in 2007) was arrested on drug charges.
2771
A Soviet dissident who spent 12 years in prison and forced labour camps is to be charged with making and possessing indecent images of children after a police investigation.
2772
Burger King will be paying the expenses and providing gifts for the wedding of Joel Burger and Ashley King .
The Burger-King nuptials will be held July 17 in Jacksonville.
2773
Previous work by Dr Roach has also shown that Homo erectus had developed the physic needed to be a deadly hunter.
2774
He did not however see the toddler in front of his truck and killed her.
The grandfather is not facing any charges at this time, but the case remains under investigation.
2775
Luckily, it was air-conditioned and served phenomenal food.
A trip here is enough to convince anyone that Adelaide is the true food capital of Australia.
2776
Hearts fans favourite Ozturk inferred that the decision not to have a guard of honour showed a lack of respect by Hibs, while boss Neilson claimed it could backfire on them on the pitch.
Neilson added: 'That's Hibs' prerogative.
2777
Mr Hammarstedt told ABC News they have been following the 'internationally-wanted poaching vessel for the past 110 days' as part of its Operation Icefish.
2778
For three of the sons, it was the first time they had tasted KFC.
But to bring our sons here with us makes it even more fun,' Lufty told the Times Tribune.
2779
‘My situation is not important,’ he said ahead of today’s visit of Crystal Palace.
Hopefully that will be the same against Palace.'
2780
Terrorists are undergoing training in rural areas of west Wales, it has emerged.
Speaking to Ceredigion Council, DC Jones stressed that issues surrounding terrorism were not confined to large cities.
2781
The actress' Grade II-listed home backs onto a site that is a designated special protection area to safeguard wildlife living along the coast.
The Conservancy has also recommended the application be refused.
2782
As reported on Wednesday, the tour will be shorter than last year's epic trek across the country and is likely to be confined to the west coast thanks to input from manager Louis van Gaal.
2783
The planning application claims the building will be 'climate-change proof due to its jacking system.
He wants to erect a mansion in its place.'
2784
'I have fantastic players, who are united and willing to make sacrifices for the good of the team.
Lazio are one point adrift of city rivals Roma with nine games remaining.
2785
But according to research in the Sunday Times, shoppers in Poundland are being charged more per unit of certain products compared with bigger retailers.
2786
In August, notorious Australian terrorist Khaled Sharrouf posted a Twitter image of his seven-year-old son gripping the severed head of a Syrian soldier, with the accompanying caption 'that's my boy!'
2787
This way of fishing is 'absolutely ecologically safe,' says Rogotneva, who insists that the fishermen catch only as much as they need .
2788
Another person wrote: 'You are grubby homophobic thug and I hope you get rubbed out of our game.'
What we are proud of our players and will always cheer loud and proud for you all.'
2789
Naturally, the National Trust mainly bought up the wilder shores to preserve their wildness, which is why you won’t find any popular resorts among them.
2790
Agencies like the CIA, NSA, and National Counterterrorism Center hire therapists to deal with analysts' trauma .
2791
Philip Hughes, the Australian batsman who died after being struck by a ball, walks to the changing rooms during a game against Pakistan .
2792
Scotland Yard investigated the 'baseless' claims but found they had been made by his children after they were tortured by their mother and her partner, who attacked them and fed them drugs.
2793
He was runner-up in the Texas Open and lost in a playoff at the Houston Open before arriving at Augusta.
If history is any indication, the kid is a quick study.
2794
Assistant manager Gary Waddock is will take caretaker charge of the team ahead of the clash with Stevenage tomorrow.
2795
She is then alleged to have signed with the Los Zetas cartel and was arrested in 2011 while driving a stolen car - with a revolver and six cellphones inside.
2796
Londoners by the Regent's Canal taking advantage of record temperatures .
’ Giant jellyfish are being spotted off Britain earlier than normal thanks to the warm weather, it was claimed yesterday.
2797
James shakes hands with his former Miami Heat team-mate Mario Chalmers .
James, meanwhile, passed Patrick Ewing (24,815) into 20th place on the NBA's all-time scoring list.
2798
'I'm not in trouble :) phew!,' she wrote.
Manuela was eventually consoled by both host Drew Carey and delighted contestant Andrea .
2799
He took a £10,000 Rolex, a £500 Samsung mobile phone, an iPhone worth £600 and a Dunhill wallet worth £200 belonging to Ivan Pavlov.
2800
She picked up further shots at the 11th and 15th before making her only bogey of the day at the 16th, then ended her round in eagle style.
But I give myself a chance for the weekend.'
2801
He said: 'Our study provides a mechanism for how binge-drinking during adolescence may lead to lasting changes that result in increased anxiety and alcoholism in adults.'
2802
The former Inter Milan star signed for the Foxes in the summer, leaving Italy after ten years and embarking on a new challenge in England.
2803
But we are not thinking about the last games against them.
These derbies are very difficult.'
I consider myself very important in this team.'
2804
Ishizaki simply swung a first-time right foot volley at the ball, which bounced once in the middle of the penalty area before finding the top corner perfectly.
2805
Going for grey: A viewer takes to Twitter to insist the dress he saw was grey .
Under the studio lights, Miss Sturgeon's get-up seemed to be green .
2806
I don't think he wants to sell it to just anybody, they have to be the right people who are going to invest and look after the club.
2807
'He is an outstanding young Test cricketer, who is hungry to perform in the English game.
I hope I can contribute to further success.'
2808
Ayew, son of former Ghana midfielder Abedi Pele, is keen to move to the Premier League but will discuss his options at the end of the season.
2809
An investigation has been launched at a £33,000-a-year school after students were taught the wrong exam text.
Wellington College is sorry this mistake happened.'
2810
John and Carlos were told by their previous modeling agencies to act more 'butch' and delete their joint Instagram account, where they often pose kissing and holding hands .
2811
CARDIFF (4-4-2): Marshall; Fabio, Ecuele Manga, Morrison; Malone; Noone, Whittingham, Gunnarsson (Kennedy 66mins), Ralls; Revell (Mason 38), Doyle (Harris 78)
2812
However, one charity has come up with an innovative new type of shoe that grows with a child's feet.
A buckle on the back also can be adjusted to help make the shoes fit better.
2813
When they got home she went straight to the bedroom to dump her handbag and O'Riordan asked why she had not removed her coat.
'It was me who stabbed her.
2814
After his body was found, friends said that he never would have taken his life, but McKinney police confirmed on Thursday that it was suicide.
2815
The Georgia State Patrol said three people also were injured and seven vehicles were damaged.
The university said the students were all Georgia residents in their junior year.
2816
Oklahoma City's Russell Westbrook scored 37 points in the Thunder's 138-113 victory over Minnesota that was rendered moot by New Orleans' play-off-clinching win over San Antonio.
2817
Mr Osborne replied: 'Well it’s part of our balanced plan.
‘The reality is that the spending programme that they have put forward is a threat to cut the NHS,’ she said.
2818
Steve also began to shed the pounds after joining Holly on her diet plan and switching his meals to align with hers.
He said: 'I'm a typical man and I can't cook.
2819
The 20-room hotel describes itself as a 'temple to hedonism,' having taken inspiration from the pleasure houses of yesteryear .
2820
Jondrew Lachaux faces child abuse charges and concealing evidence after the toddler's badly decomposed body was found in the garage .
2821
He also said in the interview that he still considers himself a heterosexual, discussed his faith and said he was a Christian.
She is not a lie.'
2822
Moved to tears:
The Southwest Airlines flight crew presented mazzy with gifts and had the whole entire plane sing happy birthday to her .
2823
A spokesman for Tesco said: 'Colleagues asked us to help them think about their health and we are happy to lend a hand with some ideas to stay active.'
2824
Dirk Kuyt (left) is returning to Feyenoord, nine years after leaving the Dutch Eredivsie club for Liverpool .
This will be music to the ears of all Feyenoord fans."
2825
But Mr Singh will still need another procedure to remove the rest of the metal .
He has since carried out more than 240 endoscopy procedures to remove the objects - yet some still remain.
2826
Mr Springall insisted there was 'no one' else in the vicinity - and said it had not been Photoshopped, despite sceptics believing otherwise.
2827
KSNV reports the couple are the parents of the dead child.
She had taken the baby to Sunrise Hospital.
'Definitely bothersome,' Michael Frank told reporters.
2828
Mr Miliband rounded on the 'desperate smears' by Mr Cameron's 'minions'.
As Mr Cameron spoke to local voters, he was urged to avoid 'name calling' tactics against Ed Miliband .
2829
A Lamoni address listed on the Yelp page for Manuel's practice appears to be a home on a residential street.
2830
'Over a month ago, a player from Rajasthan Royals was approached inappropriately by a player (who was not part of the IPL) in connection with the Indian Premier League 2015 matches,' Rajasthan CEO Raghu Iyer said in a statement.
2831
Quinton Fortune claims Neymar looked uncomfortable during Barcelona's 1-0 win over Celta Vigo .
‘Barcelona are not playing well and still getting results.
2832
White told the Tampa Bay Times that a dialogue had not been engaged with 'any local officials', though Kimmerle said she's been working with the Sheriff's office since March 2014.
2833
'We are carrying out an extensive investigation to bring the perpetrators to justice but need the help of the public.
2834
Moeen Ali has been named as an ambassador for Liverpool's official fan club in Pakistan .
Ali, a lifelong Liverpool fan, was in attendance for the LFC All-Stars match at Anfield last month .
2835
But Downton’s removal, and Giles Clarke’s departure, means the path is now clear for Pietersen if he scores runs for Surrey.
James Whitaker .
2836
But he leaves Chicago with his achievements on the field matched by those off it.
'I think Coach Rivera was one of the main reasons why I wanted to be here,' Tillman said.
2837
The Tigers head to Southampton on Saturday without a win in five games and perching just two points above the bottom three after wins last week for QPR and Leicester.
2838
But it’s no good letting him buy players only to get a new man in next year.
If QPR go down, Austin won’t be the only player with plenty of suitors.
2839
'Police will be taking legal action against them while inquiries to identify others involved are continuing,' a police statement said.
2840
The facility is the first of its kind at the White House and according to spokesman Jeff Tiller it’s something that fits in with the administration’s stance on LGBT issues .
2841
England forward Toni Duggan holds aloft the St George's flag as part of the 'Road to Canada' campaign .
She told Sportsmail: 'We don't fear anyone, we have lots of belief.
2842
The plaque on that tree was also stolen.
The Ferguson Police Department is investigating the incident as an act of vandalism but they do not have any suspects.
2843
One member of the Gaver family was killed in the shootout, now identified as Enoch Gaver.
Sgt Daniels was shot in the leg, while David Gaver was hit in the abdomen.
2844
Mr Connolly said Angela – whose last year of schooling was Year Six – had stopped taking hard drugs by the time she was 15 but at 16 she fell pregnant, and her baby's father was sent to prison soon afterward.
2845
According to Bruce during his ABC interview, he chickened out of going through with it and stopped taking the hormones.
And their mother also wishes him well.
2846
Ronaldo extended his scoring streak against the Yellow Submarine this season, netting both home and away.
9 - Aston Villa, Valencia, Rayo Vallecano, Real Sociedad, Deportivo .
2847
Nigel Farage has dismissed criticism of the lack of diversity in Ukip's manifesto by claiming there was a 'half black' party spokesman featured prominently - and 'one fully black person'
2848
AGE: 65 .
Her colourful wardrobe has been copied by women much younger than her 80 years and 181,000 people adore her on Facebook.
AGE: 65 .
2849
Mario Mandzukic was battered and bruised during Atletico Madrid's Champions League quarter-final tie .
2850
Most ATMs are free to use, but those in places such as nightclubs and some corner shops can charge around £1.50 .
2851
In total the family gang carried out 35 thefts, starting in February 2012 - when pensioners were still able to withdraw cash from their local Post Office.
2852
She was then taken to hospital in the ambulance  accompanied by an air ambulance, which was used to give additional support.
No arrests have been made.
2853
But what makes Day, Johnson and Walker so appealing is that each has claimed at least one big win already this year on courses that favour big hitters.
2854
Ryan Hall was sent to the sin-bin for the first time in his career in a frenetic opening but Castleford failed to take advantage and it was the Rhinos who struck first as Joel Moon scored his first try of the season.
2855
Deutsche Bank co-chief executive Jurgen Fitschen has expressed regret for the rigging, adding that no current or former member of its management board were found to have known about the misconduct .
2856
The SNP leader has denied telling French ambassador Sylvie Bermann that she would prefer David Cameron to remain in Number 10 while suggesting that Ed Miliband was not Prime Minister material.
2857
Castro spent his waning years living in Nogales and talking to students around the state, motivating them to work hard and chase lofty dreams.
2858
Explaining that he expects a 'robust debate' on the deal in the United States, Obama said he will keep Congress apprised of the "substance of the deal."
2859
UN's International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) reported to Thailand's Department of Civil Aviation that it found 'significant safety concerns' with the country's aviation safety .
2860
It's paid off,' she says of her mid-life success.
The 49-year-old recently told Vanity Fair magazine that her sex life with 34-year-old fiance, actor Ben Foster, is extraordinary .
2861
On the run: Pusok fled his house in San Bernardino County on Thursday after Sheriff's deputies showed up to arrest him on identity theft charges.
2862
Kane has scored 29 goals in all competitions for Tottenham this season .
'I think it's a good possibility to go on Monday and come back after the game on Wednesday.
2863
How serious was Eddie Howe when he indicated that the referees feel Bournemouth, at 15 kicks, have reached their quota for penalties this season?
Who could blame him if it was?
2864
But she added it was 'another matter' whether a vote for her party in the 2016 Holyrood elections would bring about a second vote on independence.
2865
The atmosphere is special.
Luca wanted to keep going.
To win there was special.
Seattle Sounders fans show their banners and flags ahead of a match against Portland last year .
2866
Mr Loughrey holds up a sign wishing the Queen a very happy 89th .
While the royal fans sang, the police conducted a search of the area .
2867
Amusingly, the Party Pieces website also publishes advice on how to hold a ‘gender neutral baby event’, which advises using decorations in yellow, red or silver.
2868
On Wednesday night, the Wall Street Journal revealed that FCC regulators questioned whether the creation of mega-size TV and internet provider was in the public interest.
2869
The Permian mass extinction has been nicknamed The Great Dying, since an incredible 96 per cent of species died out.
2870
Four men have been caught on CCTV  robbing a service station and packing $38,000 worth of cigarettes into a doona cover.
2871
When the allegations came to light, he was working at Hopkins East Baltimore Medical Center, a community practice affiliated with Johns Hopkins Hospital.
2872
The only exception to this disgraceful series of truth-twisting films was The Iron Lady, in which Britain’s first female Prime Minister was shown in a more nuanced light, almost in spite of its makers’ Left-wing instincts.
2873
Meanwhile, Daniel, 27, insisted that couples need to be 'equally yoked' when it comes to their career, ambitions and education in order for the relationships to be a success.
2874
After hearing the commotion, villagers rushed to help and drove Kanta to hospital, where doctors were treated her for a leg injury.
2875
Stoke have entered the chase for Evian full-back Daniel Wass (2nd left), who has been watched by Chelsea .
2876
It marks a return to popularity for the Grammy Award-winning singer, 73, as the first time he has reached the top of the album chart since The Rhythm of the Saints in 1990.
2877
Mr Cook put up his 'realistic' artwork on Good Friday just for 'a bit of fun'.  
He told me that I could face serious charges if I don't take it down.
2878
The company creates maps and satellite imagery that is used by the military for national security, among other things.
2879
They even made sure the decorations matched the Great Gatsby-themed dance Hurd had been planning and organizing for the last year with her student council at Milford High School.
2880
'I can live happily ever after on that because I went back and fulfilled what I wanted to achieve and it's the same for KP.'
2881
Miss Wong wrote: ‘He (Cohen) said that while there has been tremendous interest (and pressure from BBCWW) to do a Doctor Who film, the show runners feel very clear that they don’t want to do one at this moment.’
2882
He rushed to New York Methodist Hospital and collapsed at the intake desk.
'My foot has healed completely mottled and hurts much of the time but I get used to it.
2883
She also said of the movie; 'People don't like people in movies who flirt with married people or married people who flirt.'
2884
But soon after they were punished for interfering with play and Griffin kicked the resulting penalty.
2885
Inside the Ferrari garage, Vettel shares a discussion with team staff as he looks to build on his Sepang win .
'But it's normal in some races you are more competitive than others.
2886
'I think it's important for people to realise that you can do absolutely anything if you put your mind to it - I'm proof of that.'
2887
Internet users were left scratching their heads after an old hoax video showing a wave rider surfing in front of the Sydney's Opera House started trending for a second time.
2888
Music streaming service Spotify has analysed 2.8 million 'sleep' playlists and revealed that Ed Sheeran's hit song, Thinking Out Loud, is the top song that people fall asleep to .
2889
However, in terms of everyday gender-taxing across the country, a 1995 report found that 'gender tax' cost women approximately $1,351 annually - a number which doesn't show any signs of decreasing any time soon.
2890
A two-year-old boy is recovering after falling into a cheetah exhibit at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo after his parents dangled him over the edge, officials said.
The exhibit was closed following the child's fall.
2891
She told The Advertiser a group of five, including four teenagers and an adult, attacked her son over money owed for a hot dog.
2892
Its study found that download speeds in Edinburgh fell by 12.5 per cent between the summer and end of last year.
2893
Although Judge Jaffe's ruling only requires a Stony Brook University representative to attend a hearing regarding Hercules and Leo next month, it can be used to set precedent for further legal action.
2894
Julian Speroni will take his Crystal Palace career into a 12th season after agreeing a new contract.
2895
Vince Cable wants a substantial role in government and envisages working with the Conservatives again .
And his fiscal policy is so vague.'
2896
Mrs Neatis said when she first heard about the sleeping arrangements at the hospital, she said she would take Cody home.
2897
The classy ball striker has got all the tools to do well at Augusta and showed as much when he forced his way into contention on several occasions.
2898
Given the way City are playing, there are a number of games that could cause them issues on the climb to the line – will Aston Villa and QPR be straightforward?
2899
He received a letter in the post to say his Blue Card had been revoked, claiming the change in his police information meant his employer must not continue to employ him.
2900
The helpless men were kept under a close watch by their ISIS captives.
The extremist group has been able to gain a foothold amid chaos in Libya and is also advancing in Iraq.
2901
In recent years, Iceland has become an increasingly popular filming location with its majestic vistas being prominently featured in many hit TV series or Hollywood blockbusters.
2902
Rebbie uploaded the videos, some that included close-up images of children's genitalia, to his computer to view later, prosecutors said.
2903
There is a quick picture and good-luck message ahead of Sunday's Tyne-Wear derby.
'Jonas (Gutierrez) won a foul just on the corner of the box.
2904
Williams has reportedly been banned from speaking publicly about the investigation, or defending himself against any new claims.
2905
‘I was at Burnley for nearly four years,’ he added.
We sold Robbie Blake [to Birmingham City for more than £1m in 2004] and built a new pitch.
2906
Some parents of twins have reported their children having identical dreams.
These strange reactions surrounding the deaths of identicals can have effects beyond the twins themselves.
2907
Faville was later found dead of a self-inflicted wound, though it is not known what kind of weapon he may have used to kill himself.
2908
'Today, I can proudly say my family is extremely close knit.
The bond I had with my brothers, prior to being removed from my family, is something that never changed.
2909
Okay.
MEETING:
She was by her side as they stopped in Chipotle in Ohio, where they left without leaving a tip .
Jennifer Palmieri (file photo)
2910
Approaching Princess Juliana International Airport, aircraft come astonishingly close to those relaxing on Maho Beach that makes for terrific footage.
2911
Although the enigmatic commander's real name was never revealed to him, Hamza said that he later discovered that the man had been an intelligence officer for the Iraqi army before joining ISIS.
2912
But Atletico say they are counting on Aldeirwereld to return to La Liga, as well as Oliver Torres who has been plying his trade in Portugal with Porto.
2913
Names have also proved popular with betting fans, with Alice the current front runner for a princess, followed by Victoria.
Frances 25/1 .
2914
A headteacher in North Yorkshire claimed 'recruitment is becoming a significant factor in preventing school improvement'.
2915
Hamilton arrived on a private plane for the night shoot, which was a fashion show.
Zoolander 2 will hit UK and US cinemas on February 12, 2016 .
2916
Bowe explained his plan to this thousands of followers in a post.
In 2013 Bowe made a comeback as a Muay Thai fighter, but was spectacularly beaten in the second round.
2917
Jack didn’t want to leave until he was any less than my husband.
The hospital chapel holds about 80 people and will be full of family and close friends.
2918
I would decline this money
’ She joined Lesley Brennan, standing in Dundee East, and Sally Keeble, in Northampton North, who both turned the money down.
2919
We were horrified.'
Justine Jones pictured without the welts.
A Tesco spokesperson said: 'We're sorry we let Mrs Jones down with our investigation.
2920
A 66-year-old man has been charged after allegedly burning an Australian flag at a Brisbane landmark on the eve before Anzac Day commemoration services are to take place at the site.
2921
Yet the watchdog ignored these findings when placing the hospital in special measures.
'It's an admission by the watchdog that its first inspection report was over the top and far too tough.
2922
And last April, the Cartel Princess posted photos on social media from inside a property that had been seized by the Knights Templar through an illegal extortion racket.
2923
Britain was one of 13 countries which increased its budget despite the straitened times.
Max Lawson, of Oxfam, praised Britain and criticised countries which have cut their aid budgets.
2924
Laura Lefebvre (left) and Josi Harrison (right) are two of three girls who have won a civil claim against their school district for failing to support them after being bullied into sending naked pictures to boyfriends .
2925
Sick of awkward father-daughter portraits?
Salary man may refer to the choice of clothing in the shoot which sees each dad in a sharply dressed suit.
2926
Wilshere was on the bench in their FA Cup semi-final win over Reading at Wembley on April 18 after five months out through injury.
2927
MAROUANE FELLAINI 7.5 – A familiar story for United’s unlikely hero.
Manchester City defender Vincent was booked and subbed as they crashed to defeat at Old Trafford .
2928
That day, Google Politics tweeted that the number one question for Rubio was 'How old is Marco Rubio?'
Rubio is 43 years old and was born in Florida to Cuban immigrants.
2929
Kenneth Wanamaker Jr, 37, pleaded guilty on Friday, weeks before a scheduled trial in the Northhampton County, Pennsylvania, case against him after the vast majority of his daughter's teeth were found to be abscessed.
2930
For the 27-year-old’s many fans and friends in the town, it means at least part of the wedding of the year will be a spectator sport, played out on the streets of the community.
2931
All eyes will be on AP McCoy as he bids for a dream end to his career but I have a strong feeling that a horse he could have ridden is going to come back to haunt him.
2932
He was once featured in a BBC profile that called him 'one of the UK's top Wikipedians' and reported that he spent up to eight hours a day working on the site.
2933
An Irish rugby player suffered one of the most gruesome ear injuries you're likely to see while playing for Heriot's Rugby Club against the Barbarians.
2934
And on the subject of Tiger Woods, only seven per cent thought he would not win another major before the start of the season.
2935
In 2011 he was invited to the couple's Westminster Abbey wedding.
The royal baby is expected to arrive later this month.
2936
West Ham are showing interest in James McArthur - with the club impressed by his Crystal Palace displays .
2937
He was relaxed ahead of a visit from Manchester United.
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho has spoken out in defence of under pressure colleague Manuel Pellegrini .
2938
Bournemouth's promotion means Arsenal will start season in second place for the first time in 100 years .
2939
Blackpool fans gathered outside Bloomfield Road to protest against the Oyston family .
Blackpool owner Owen Oyston watches on with a tartan blanket for company in the directors' box .
2940
After a theology degree Coles was ordained in 2005 and says he now leads a celibate life with his civil partner David Oldham, 37, a curate in a neighbouring parish.
2941
She added that if the order really hinders him from finding a new club then he can apply to the court to be sentenced in another way.
2942
She noted that North didn't want to be picked up, adding: 'She's very independent .
'[I think I dress] sexier now than I did before,' she said of her mommy style.
2943
He landed September 10.
Legal experts say the most likely outcome is that China would prosecute people within China for crimes committed elsewhere.
2944
The Tories have blamed the last Labour government for failing to keep the banks in check during its 13 years in power.
He was stripped of his title in 2012.
2945
Survivors told charity workers that as many as 400 others perished and Italian coastguards said today that no more had been found alive .
2946
The new requirement will create the first accurate picture of the extent of Islamophobic hate crimes in Britain.
2947
Gregoire said the fight is one of Seatgeek's most searched events, but that only a few dozen tickets have been sold through the website.
2948
Still going: Almond growers in California are at the centre of a row over water usage during one of the worst droughts in decades .
2949
I’m not being paid to do anything other than be a fan.’
Yorkshire's championship winning coach Jason Gillespie is preparing for the season with a new diet .
2950
4. Liverpool (23) 8 – Steven Gerrard .
1 – Fabricio Coloccini, Kieron Dyer, Rob Lee, David Ginola, Les Ferdinand, Peter Beardsley .
2 – Yaya Toure, Joe Hart .
2951
Labour peer John Prescott has defended Prince Charles over allegations he tries to secretly influence government policy with scrawled private notes to ministers - insisting he should 'right to 'write as many damn letters as he likes'.
2952
2. Sharon Osbourne .
Although results show most people would love an A-List family, most people did state that the most important value to find in a parental figure was trust and kindness over being rich and good-looking.
2953
The arrival of Frank Lampard at the end of the Premier League season will be a major boost and could what City need to take them to the next step.
2954
Newspaper articles from 1913 about Mr McAllister's death (pictured) tell how he 'dived to his death' and drowned following an 'amazing act of bravado'
2955
He said the DPP’s ruling went against her previously stated commitment to seek justice for victims, no matter how old the allegations.
2956
The 57-year-old was sent to Thoqba prison in the Al Khobar Eastern Province on October 19 and was released on March 19.
They have to be much more proactive.'
2957
BOURNEMOUTH: Boruc, Francis, Elphick, Cook, Daniels, Ritchie, Arter, Surman, Pugh (Smith 69), Kermorgant (Pitman 75), Wilson (Jones 90)
2958
'Besides the obvious health concerns, binge drinking can also lead to violence against women, sometimes fatal drunken accidents, and unprotected sex.'
2959
The banking giant was criticised for refusing to grant the £250,000 loan because the husband would have been over 65 when the 18-year-deal finished, according to The Sunday Times.
2960
The 27-year-old has been linked with a move away from Barcelona this summer and he claims that is normal for a player not featuring regularly.
2961
Jamelia's co-panellists were quick to leap to her defence.
The star also argued that clothing shouldn't be sold in a size zero either, because that too is 'unhealthy'
2962
Subs not used: Friedel, Dembele, Stambouli, Soldado .
Barnes tumbles over as a chance goes begging for Burnley against Tottenham in the Premier League match .
2963
'It was unnecessarily close with Sebastian as a result, and also it cost me a lot of race time because I had to cover him.
If Nico wanted to get by he could have tried, but he didn't.'
6.
2964
Bain refuses to react as the Turkish striker does his best to rile his rival goalkeeper at Den Park .
However, Dundee broke the deadlock in the 14th minute through Stewart.
2965
Earlier this month France passed a new law that bars models from walking the runway if their body mass index is deemed too low, in an attempt to combat anorexia.
2966
Pat on a night out with Julia, left, who says 'we'll just keep going till we fall to bits'
The friends often party all night in Menorca where Julia now lives .
2967
Love the lighting in these photography shots?
 The 33-year-old artist has admitted that this type of artwork suits his precise preferences and personality.
.
2968
‘Football can change very quickly.
I was proud of the players today, I really was.
I like a bit of banter because it’s the fans’ day as well as the players.
2969
Subs not used: David Soria, Navarro, Diogo, D Suarez.
Jose Antonio Reyes played a big part in the equaliser, which was converted by another substitute, Kevin Gameiro.
2970
‘I think it will be an uphill struggle, especially after (Inverness manager) John Hughes’s comments on the radio saying it was a sending-off matter.’
2971
According to police reports, McElroy fired 100-yards away from Johnson's home.
Lee County Sheriff's department said they recommend using a shotgun to kill vermin.
2972
The researchers, whose work is published in the journal Nature Communications, then used the x-ray beams produced by the Advanced Light Source at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, to study the structural changes that took place in the skin.
2973
Professor Andrew Messenger says that a study published last year shows caffeine can stimulate human hair growth in vitro, ie in a test tube.
2974
'I'm now a DJ full time and I do some work within the fashion industry too,' said Munroe.
She said: 'I first started taking hormones that had been prescribed to my other trans friends.
2975
The former Strictly Come Dancing star found herself stifling laughter after drawing the words 'p*ss' and 'a*se' shortly after replacing Carol Vorderman in 2009.
2976
After criticism of a dull campaign from the chillaxing PM, Mr Cameron used an interview to insist he was working 'bloody hard' to secure a majority.
2977
Manchester United had a scouting watching Anderson as he set up the winning goal against Napoli .
Napoli will not sell cheaply and value the 27-year-old at £40million.
2978
According to a South Korean official, quoted in Sky News, Jong-Un must have suffered the injury in the recent past.
2979
Its forecast for UK growth this year remains at 2.7 per cent though for next year it is cut from 2.4 per cent to 2.3 per cent.
2980
England must decide whether to stick with the attack that failed to force a first Test win or twist and freshen things up for a second match that is already upon them.
2981
The emotional moment the pair were reunited was captured on camera.
'It is possible the two remember each other but the video itself does not necessarily prove this.'
2982
The Homeland Security Department's inspector general is investigating the allegations of misconduct by the supervisor.
2983
Hales hopes his brilliant knock against Yorkshire sends a message to the England selectors .
'It was just nice to get back out over the white line and get 96 overs in the legs.
2984
Wish you could look as glamorous as J.Lo?
Check below for affordable ways to get J.Lo's gorgeous look.
AKIRA BLACK LABEL Wish You Well Sequin Dress in Gold (now $20!)
2985
Mark Hughes believes Tom Jones' song 'Delilah' is costing them a spot in the Europe League .
'The Fair Play table is a waste of time,' he added.
2986
He imagines a space station of tomorrow similar to Las Vegas (shown in image), with neon lights and plenty of attractions .
2987
Pulis said West Brom has 'gone off the rails' in recent seasons and needs fundamental improvements to get back on track.
It is a good football club, everything is in place.
2988
Corporal Christian Walmsley was found dead in his flat in Bolton, Greater Manchester wearing five war medals after struggling to adapt to civilian life, a coroner was told.
2989
Tottenham though believe some new additions of their own in the summer can make them greater contenders for Champions League football next season and do not intend to help their rivals.
2990
Meanwhile criminologist Richard Hoskins said he has identified 'startling similarities' between the Hatton Garden raid and novel Black Echo, by Michael Connelly.
2991
Hungry for power: SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon .
Nick Clegg said last night he would not support any deal with Labour that relies on it being propped up by the SNP.
2992
But most impressive, was the screen’s ability to withstand an electric drill being dragged across its surface, without leaving a mark.
2993
Whilst it remains unknown how Islamic State will manage to enforce these rules, the jihadi group has previously struggled to keep any control of its fighters and supporters on social media.
2994
But it ended up on the back burner after a station shipment from Virginia was lost in a launch explosion.
Astronauts drink the coffee straight from the pouch using a straw.
2995
After the terrifying hold-up, the pirates pushed the sailboat to the shoreline of a remote beach in Jeanette Kawas National Park, cut the main sail and tore out the engine wire, leaving the couple and their captain stranded.
2996
A court heard how Roberts, 53, mistreated Mrs Hadlow when the elderly widow was being treated at the hospital.
My son said if they do it to you, you can do it to them.'
2997
Only the Liberal Democrats have listened.'
The party claims that they would spend £17 billion more than the Tories and £7 billion more than Labour on the NHS.
2998
Vlaar starred in Holland's run to the semi finals in Brazil last year - despite missing a penalty in the last four shoot-out against Argentina - leading to links with Manchester United.
2999
They have been able to conclusively show that a pair of ancient baby teeth found at two prehistoric sites in northern Italy belong to modern humans from this culture.
3000
Richard Hammond has released a video documenting his 'bored' unemployed lifestyle - which has already been watched by 230,000 people .
3001
The force has previously stated that all nine of those held in Turkey would be sent back to the UK ‘in due course’.
3002
In a tweet, the Scotland and Edinburgh centre said: ‘Gutted that my season is over already after getting surgery. ‘Brings an end to a frustrating year for me but positive about next few months.’ Edinburgh
3003
Manny Pacquiao has shown off his musical talent by singing about the struggles in the Philippines .
3004
He and Cuban President Raul Castro spoke on the phone Wednesday ahead of an anticipated 'interaction' at the conference .
That controversy now hangs over the summit, which . ends on Saturday.
3005
A gym is difficult on my knees.
It gives me an opportunity to try new things — like coming to Dubai with Harry and spending most of the time lying around.
3006
'Xavi is an important player for us in any month of the year,' said Enrique.
'He is the player that has played most games in a Barça shirt and will decide (his future).
3007
Liaqat launched into a 'racist tirade' at white members of staff after 14-year-old boys were told they could not keep their facial hair, police said.
3008
Ibrahimovic, who later said he was sorry after the French sports minister asked him to apologise, is available for Saturday's League Cup final against Bastia as his suspension only starts next week.
3009
Rosberg accused Hamilton of being selfish by driving too slow and compromising his second position .
And it made a real big difference to the balance of the car for the race.
3010
Young men ignite homemade rockets during the Orthodox Easter celebrations on the island of Chios, Greece, on Saturday night .
3011
Surveillance video at Hernandez's home minutes after the shooting showed him holding a black item that appeared to be a gun.
'The investigation done in this case was incomplete, biased and inept.
3012
Floyd Maywether's sparring partner Jeremy Nichols gives a mock interview as Manny Pacquiao .
Pacquiao and his coach Freddie Roach take part in a similar training session In Los Angeles .
3013
Labour leader Ed Miliband, on the BBC's Andrew Marr show (left), has pledged to introduce a mansion tax on properties worth over £2million.
3014
'I also gasp or sigh if I see a yellow taxi when I am out.
Ms Cobourn added: 'One of the most difficult aspects to deal with was the fact the driver did not try to help me and also denied the incident.
3015
It could be anywhere – if it’s a big budget it will be the Bahamas!’
Jennifer Saunders plays Edina Monsoon while Lumley plays Patsy Stone .
New Years Eve I gave it to her.’
3016
'You can do all your preparation you want but it doesn't matter if you don't perform on a Saturday.
There are a few in there who are out of contract.'
3017
Stunning: Graeme Whipps captured this image of the Lyrid meteor shower in the skies above Pitcaple in Aberdeenshire yesterday .
3018
The crowds met this afternoon as part of the annual '420' event - a global celebration of cannabis which calls for reform to drug laws.
3019
Swansea vs Hull .
Burnley vs Tottenham .
However in this table the Toon still make the top six through narrow 1-0 wins over both QPR and Leicester.
3020
In London, hotels that it has signed up include H10 Waterloo, The Kingsway Hall Hotel, Yotel Heathrow and Gatwick, Crowne Plaza London - The City, Academy Hotel, and Threadneedles, Marriott Autograph Collection.
3021
At the age of 30, the artist from Denton in Texas was completely blind.
Over the next 12 years he was able to refine this technique until he was able to work seamlessly.
3022
'This was Rachael Evans' idea.
Ms Wilkins said once Ms Ayers was dead, Evans dragged her body into the bathroom so she could try to wash away Duffy's DNA.
3023
Sunderland will not suspend Adam Johnson after he was charged with grooming and three counts of sexual activity with a 15-year-old girl.
3024
Premier League sides must name eight homegrown players in their 25-man squad registered at the beginning of the season.
3025
He took the fight to the floor, looking for the finish, but Filipovic defended well and pulled free, albeit conceding the round in the process.
3026
He added: ‘He (Sherwood) said to the team we have to play to our strengths, to play with me and Gabby.
I'm comfortable, it's a good partnership.’
3027
They fell behind after nine minutes when former Barcelona player Nolito took advantage of poor Real Madrid defending.
A week ago he was a frustrated squad player.
3028
Jacques Burger will be available to play in Saracens' European Champions Cup semi-final against Clermont Auvergne in Saint Etienne on April 18.
3029
Before the diagnosis, Wilson said she had 'vigilantly monitored' her health with mammograms and MRIs because she knew she had an underlying condition of LCIS, (lobular carcinoma in situ)'.
3030
The study concluded: ‘The experience of a serious life event during the first 14 years of life may be a risk factor.
3031
Stevan Ridley (right) became the 15th player to join the Jets in a frantic free agency .
However it's #ontotheJETS.'
3032
Hughes said: 'I'm sure they will be looking at him.
He wants to be part of a successful football club, I know that.
He's an ambitious guy.
3033
VIDEO - Scroll down to see Real Madrid's welcoming from their fans .
Real Madrid defender Raphael Varane captured the team's entrance to the Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday .
3034
That's when the mystery man arrived at the scene.
Sitko was taken to hospital and is recovering from minor injuries, however he is lucky to be alive.
3035
'The irony is she is playing Scaramouche in the school's adaptation of We Will Rock You, which is about society suppressing people's creativity and self-expression.
3036
The 1985 final was watched by 18.5million, a BBC2 record, but it is way behind the most-watched sporting events: .
Referee John Williams calls for silence.
3037
A friend put her in touch with a rabbit dealer in Holland, where the Continental Giant comes from.
They roam around the kitchen, garden and a small barn.
3038
Apart from the Devon and Scotland coastline, training also took place at Camp Gordon Johnston near Carrabelle, Florida.
Talking about Castle Toward he said: 'It was ideal where it was.
3039
But in 2011, Dr Shannon was trapped in his burning SUV after it was T-boned by a semi-truck, when Trokey, now an Orange County Fire Authority paramedic, worked to pull him out alive.
3040
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce lamented his side's 'nerves and panic' which saw Stoke snatch a dramatic equaliser deep into stoppage time to earn a 1-1 draw at Upton Park.
3041
Spurs are looking to sign young players around the £15million mark, though, while Liverpool would need to shift Mario Balotelli.
3042
Minutes of a university Academic Board meeting show staff were worried over how the course was being advertised to Year 11 students 'as an alternative to completing the HSC', with 'concern noted about possible implications for the university's reputation'.
3043
'Lopetegui grows and grows,' they say on their front page, linking him with the Real Madrid job that might become vacant this summer.
3044
Apology:
A.M. 'Marty' Stroud III, pictured, wrote a lengthy apology letter to Ford last month that was published in a local newspaper.
Freed:
3045
‘He is very good at football, but that was just amazing.
"He is very confident but you can tell by the look on his face I think he was surprised too."
3046
Later in the video the fish interacts further with the man by swimming up his arm and circling his fingers.
3047
Shackleford revealed that 'Be on Ellen' was on her diary list of '100 things I want to do before I die'
'The fact that we've had people writing to us from around the world...
3048
Since the loss of her daughter, Mrs Jones has suffered from agroraphobia and will not leave the house on her own.
The family has said they have struggled to come to terms with April's death.
3049
Jonathon Stevenson was just 16 years old when he asked for Benaud's advice on left-handed leg spin and he shared the lengthy response on Twitter on Friday as a tribute to the 'great man'.
3050
California-based YouTube user Lionel Hutz filmed his young son chasing the family feline around the garden in a bid to get some rest.
3051
He also admitted assaulting his former partner Bobbi Jo Houston at her home in Blackpool during the attack on February 12 this year.
'The guinea pigs were killed as a result of this man's actions.
3052
Alexandria Commonwealth’s Attorney Bryan Porter told the court on Thursday that Severance's anger drove him to kill, The Post reported.
3053
But it was enough to defeat West Ham in a frenetic match and breathe life back into the side he has spent his whole career playing for.
I’ve had a brilliant journey with this club.
3054
The world’s leading gold mining company has paid compensation to 11 women in remote Papua New Guinea after they were raped by the firm’s security guards and police, it was revealed today.
3055
'But [now] he's kinda like tap dancing like Fred Astaire.'
It's hoped in around three to four months’ time Roscoe will be fully healed and ready for adoption.
3056
Jiri Stabl, a spokesman for the Prague Public Transport Company, told AP that the train project is delayed and ‘it became impossible’ to change the original plan to include an escalator for those transferring from the metro station to the bus terminal.
3057
Dotted among scrubland, placed in seemingly random spots, these huge arrows were once markers for early airmail flights across the US - forming the first land-based navigation system in the world.
3058
Professor Hawking joked that in another different universe 'Zayn is still in One Direction' 'It would not be beyond the realms of possibility that somewhere outside of our own universe lies another different universe.
3059
Nonetheless, Pardew cut a resigned and wounded figure following a 1-0 defeat at Stoke which left Newcastle joint bottom with Burnley.
But in his absence the club has begun to unravel.
3060
Survivors and victims of the Nanjing Massacre carry flowers and mourn the deceased as part of 'Tomb-Sweeping Day' in China .
3061
The nationwide strike follows action by French air traffic controllers which involved a two-day walkout starting yesterday.
3062
This 1999 file photo shows an Arizona correctional officer explaining his state's execution method .
Opponents say there's no way to know whether the method is painless and effective.
3063
The career criminal, who claimed he worked in 'midnight removals' in his online profile, was part of an armed gang responsible for 29 robberies and burglaries.
3064
‘Kevin’s not on this trip so I don’t have to focus on Kevin at all,’ insisted Moores, who initially lost his job as England coach after clashing with Pietersen at the end of 2008.
3065
Over six months since he travelled to Syria, Hamza's friend Abu Mariya al-Belgiki remains a frustrated bachelor.
LOL I'm happy for him but still...
3066
Raheem Sterling, pictured against Arsenal, is a better player than Mesut Ozil according to Michael Owen .
3067
However, Ms Laurente feared Jacob's dreams had been shattered, when she was told her son would not be able to fly with the airline's unaccompanied minors service.
3068
But several Dumont High School students said that their school has imposed a new policy that prohibits windows from being opened more than 6 inches, The Record reported.
3069
The court heard Spedding denied the claims when police initially put them to him in the 1980s.
Mr Spedding applied for bail on Thursday but it was refused by Magistrate Thomas Hodgson.
3070
Hodgson said: ‘Harry wants to finish the job he has done, but the main reason is because Harry wants to go with the Under 21s.
3071
Ward joined Palace in 2012 from boyhood club Portsmouth, and proved to be a direct replacement for the outgoing Nathaniel Clyne, who himself has become an England regular since his move to Southampton.
3072
Young insisted that after the derby-day win, United's sixth consecutive league victory, the players feel like they can win all their remaining matches and finish the season on a high.
3073
Scene of the incident:
After the raccoon's discovery, animal control officers were called out.
It's not known where the raccoon was relocated to.
3074
Esteban Cambiasso signed a one-year deal at Leicester City and is now linked with Delhi Dynamos in India .
3075
Woods, meanwhile, will be joined by Sergio Garcia when he tees off at 1:15pm (6:15pm BST)
Justin Rose will be in Saturday's penultimate pairing at 7:45pm UK time with Dustin Johnson .
FULL THIRD ROUND TEE TIMES (BST) 3:05pm
4:05pm
7:35pm
Justin Rose (Eng), Dustin Johnson . 7:55pm
3076
The judge was told that the girl had not wanted a sexual relationship with Shorter and on one occasion had stormed out of a personal tuition session when he tried to grope her.
3077
Middlesbrough County Court heard how officer Detective Sergeant Colin Helyer 'lied' to the local authority child abuse investigation to justify arresting the mother of five.
3078
According to Hanson Robotics's website, the humanoids can actually see your face, make eye contact with you, and understand speech to 'engage you in witty dialogue'.
3079
But after three months of sticking with it, she admitted that she started to 'somewhat enjoy it'.
She is also enjoying what working out has done for her mental health.
3080
The tatty tarmac site overlooks the golden sands at Rhossili in South Wales, voted the UK's number one beach, the third best in Europe, and 9th best in the world by TripAdvisor.
3081
Robert Huth (right) has played a major role in Leicester's recent run of positive results .
Blackburn, 13 points outside the play-off places, have scored a total of 63.
3082
But not everyone was smiling after Sir Paul McCartney married Heather Mills.
The couple turned down a £1.5 million offer from Hello! magazine for exclusive photos of the event.
3083
At a microcellular level, the infinitely complex network of nerve cells that make up the constituent parts of the brain actually change in response to certain experiences and stimuli.'
3084
Hattie Gladwell blogs about her experience of living with an ostomy bag after she underwent emergency surgery for ulcerative colitis .
3085
A 22-year-old University of Kentucky student was shot and killed near campus in what police describe as an attempted robbery.
'It's a hard day for them,' Poore said.
3086
But, in fairness to the 31-year-old, he was Newcastle’s best player - not that he had much competition.
United, though, had no recognised defenders on the bench.
3087
When the first iPad launched on 3 April 2010, opinion was split on how popular the product would turn out to be, and whether the tablet market would grow.
3088
The sheep stars in a number of Vine videos jumping on the bed, running through hallways, pushing over chairs and wrestling with other pets .
3089
In 1963, Dr Richard Beeching, a civil servant from the Isle of Sheppey, was recruited by the government to write a report about how to make the railway network more profitable.
3090
Sales of iPhones in China were also revealed to have outstripped those in the US.
iPad revenue fell 29% to $5.4 billion .
'The response has been overwhelming.
3091
Zoo's distasteful campaign comes as supermarket giant, Woolworths, found themselves being accused of trying to cash in on Anzac Day.
3092
Experts predict that the economy will have grown by 0.5 per cent in the first three months of the year, down from 0.9 per cent in the same period in 2014 .
3093
The violent standoff began about 9pm on Monday, when Mr Brock and one of the suspects got into an argument, the Houston Chronicle reported.
3094
Germans now think of themselves as the victims of Hitler and his Nazi Regime .
Only nine per cent of Germans now consider the end of the conflict a defeat.
3095
The 25-year-old Denmark international is available for around £3.5million and has been watched by Chelsea, Liverpool and Newcastle over the past year as they look for versatile full back options.
3096
The music was superb, the food was mediocre, and British industry was on its knees.
When I was a child I am afraid to say that British cars were the butt of international derision.
3097
Officials also often did not penalise tradesmen for parking in restricted areas – even though only water and electricity vehicles are allowed to stop in them without permits.
3098
The top two sides in Group B meet at the Cardiff City Stadium on June 12 with Wales in their best position to qualify for a major tournament since the 1958 World Cup finals in Sweden.
3099
The British brand has become a global success with sales up 10 per cent for the six months to the end of March compared to the year before, taking from up to £1.42 billion.
3100
Danger: Benjamin Netanyahu said the deal will 'increase Iran's aggression and terror throughout the Middle-East'
If Iran cheats, the world will know about it.’
3101
She also said that abandoning nuclear weapons and leaving Nato was a ‘long-term plan many decades into the future’.
3102
And following their 3-1 win at home to Aston Villa on Saturday, Jones is hoping they can continue their momentum when Manuel Pellegrini's side enter the red half of Manchester.
3103
'Once you have put your ‘watered’ bread in the oven or microwave, make sure you eat it within the day, as the warmth and damp may potentially harbour bacteria.
3104
Carragher believes De Gea is one of the main reasons United are enjoying such a successful run .
Terry voted for Liverpool's Philippe Coutinho, who completes the six-man shortlist .
3105
'The games are all tough, like next week Stoke away.
Alderweireld is focused on European qualification, and Saints took another step towards that goal against Hull .
3106
Crashing hit: The blockbuster, also co-starring Vin Diesel and Jason Statham, has already earned $1 billion .
'Kudos to Kevin for working so hard in promoting the film.'
3107
'Alternatively, I would urge people to be vigilant and if you think you see this man, then please call us straight away.'
3108
'It helps me stay young and I just keep going,' said Bill, who has worked there for the last nine years.
'Bill is a great role model to our younger members of staff.
3109
He and his wife retired and moved to Jacksonville in 2006.
Mr Dahl and his wife were avid sailors on San Francisco Bay, where she plans to sprinkle his ashes in May.
3110
Doctors are putting the health of women and their babies at risk by performing caesarean sections too readily, UN officials warn.
3111
Brown (right) says he suffered a headache after playing in England's clash against France last month .
'It's just not worth pushing through.'
3112
'Jordan seems to have that same quality right now and he's very comfortable playing with a lead.
14 under round here I'll take that every year and take my chances.'
3113
Ayotte said she was 'shocked and deeply saddened' by Wihby's arrest.
He was one of ten men to be arrested in the last week by Nashua Police on charges of prostitution .
3114
Bale has not been injured since October of last year when a hip problem kept him out for three weeks.
Bale’s absence will be a massive blow for Ancelotti however.
3115
The ban was first reported by NJ.com.
The university said last month that six fraternities and one sorority are under review for alcohol violations.
3116
'We have obtained a large number of names of members of the public present in the area at the relevant time but I would ask for those people who have not yet spoken to police to contact us.
3117
Mark Rylance, who played Thomas Cromwell, blamed there diminutive size on a 'directive from our American producers'.
Miss Worsley said: 'She's too pretty.
3118
Mercedes motorsport boss Toto Wolff sees no reason to go cap in hand to the powers that be within the German giant and demand extra revenue to fight off the new threat of Ferrari.
3119
Ryuichi Kiyonari bettered the Donington Park lap record to take put his Buildbase BMW on to pole start for the Easter Monday opening round of the MCE British Superbike Championship.
3120
Wells' comments comes days after France passed legislation banning excessively thin models from participating in Paris Fashion Week.
Diet:
3121
Michel Vorm is set to deputise in place of Hugo Lloris when Tottenham play Burnley on Sunday .
'Michel took it very well.
I have no worries about him.
3122
Robin has since written a number of cookbooks for people with diabetes, as he found there was a lack of recipes available.
The result was extraordinary.
3123
Star:
Ted Loveday has powered Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge to victory in University Challenge .
Team:
Quizmaster:
In the long run we're all dead.'
3124
Mr Prasetyo declared it was necessary to fight drug crime in the country, as he dismissed Australia's withdrawal of its ambassador as a 'momentary reaction'.
3125
Abuse:
After being told that the man does not have the money to pay her back straight away, she is seen slapping him twice in the street .
3126
Hearn added: ‘Scott might not get £1.5m.
Frampton celebrates after his win over Spain's Kiko Martinez in September last year .
3127
Peter Hiett, a decorated former prison guard at Feltham Young Offenders Institution, said staff would put inmates in a cell padded with mattresses and leave them to fight out any differences.
3128
Thousands of people have launched a campaign to stop an 11-year-old boy being deported to Bangladesh weeks after his little brother died following a long battle with cancer.
3129
It looked like they had been practising.’
According to the filmmaker, the group have already made plans to go on a fishing trip to Ireland in the near future.
3130
Wilfried Bony is more likely to be joined by a young star such as Raheem Sterling than an Academy player .
Pellegrini said: 'I think about the Academy, we must be patient.
3131
A banana, a biscuit, a drink, a dummy, a poo, a wee, a wipe, dinner, lunch, breakfast, a snack, toys, clothes.
You can tell them to share until you are blue in the face.
3132
Laura was living off just one piece of fruit a day and would hide her food down the side of her bed so her parents wouldn't see it .
'I would feel dizzy or pass out because my heart rate was so slow.'
3133
Kayaking on the Ardèche is the number one tourist attraction (lower age limit seven).
An ideal base for couples is the Fortina Spa Resort, on the waterfront in Sliema.
3134
Tiger Woods was genial.
He has a lot at stake.
Woods latest comeback has sparked a tidal wave of interest from American supporters and beyond .
3135
'One of the other duties of women in regard to their men is to take care of their men’s instinctive needs [sexual drive]', the cleric said in a report by The Clarion Project, an organisation against extremism.
3136
Olivier Giroud - Endured a titanic battle with Terry.
6 .
Oscar - Playing in an unfamiliar role as central striker, he should have won Chelsea a penalty.
3137
She helped tend to survivors and those gravely injured before rescue helicopters arrived to get people off the mountainside .
, he said.
3138
The security situation in Ramadi sharply deteriorated after the terrorists seized three villages around the city, forcing an estimated 100,000 to flee their homes.
3139
He's working hard on his rehab.
Prior admitted he may never play Test cricket for England again after his injury last summer .
3140
She shared her account of the story on Facebook, as a 'reminder for us to be kinder to each other.'
As her daughter asked if they could move away, she told her 'ugly can live anywhere'.
3141
Jerry reflected on his wife's talent and popularity: 'She is a fabulous lady and I am glad they recognized her, and she is thrilled, absolutely thrilled; and deservedly so.
3142
Second opinion:
A second angle showed Stone losing his balance while fighting for the puck with the Red Wings' Luke Glendening .
Bruiser:
3143
as other employees point out the illicit encounter before she says she wants to get an air horn to disrupt the couple
3144
Dishes that contain 'shocking' amounts of sugar are being promoted as healthy eating options by the Government's flagship anti-obesity initiative.
3145
Last month, while she was still a board member, Clinton defended the family charity to questions about its reliance on donations from foreign governments, saying the foundation had 'hundreds of thousands of donors.'
3146
Others erupted into fits of laughter as they tried to translate the classic Australian vernacular, and Murray also ran into one very talkative man intent on repeating he used to live in the back of Britney Spears' dads house.
3147
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers will have to plan without the services of Mamadou Sakho for a clutch of important games as the French centre-back faces three to four weeks out of action with a hamstring injury.
3148
On the bright side, Del Bosque was impressed with the debuts of Malaga forward Juanmi and Sevilla winger Vitolo.
'The two rookies have had a good performance.
3149
Naismith (centre) teamed up with Job Centre Plus to offer unemployed fans the opportunity to watch the club .
3150
Costello said all the teachers involved in the letter writing campaign should be fired.
However reports say he was suffering high blood sugar levels.
3151
You have to enjoy doing well,' as his joyous century celebration indicated.
The first hour is vital for both sides.
We wanted to be around 100 for one at the close.
3152
Visitors were challenged to spot the replica among 270 Old Master paintings.
Instead, his attention has turned to whether the fake will now become a work of art in its own right.
3153
'You have to share,' screamed Fallon.
Later in the program he hoarded a pint of ice cream (above) Fallon brought out for the two to share .
3154
John Isner reached the semifinals of the Miami Open after easily beating fourth-seeded Kei Nishikori of Japan 6-4, 6-3 on Thursday.
3155
'While the 2002 Ford Taurus is a fine car, it's not exactly exciting with just a couple of photos on Craigslist on its own,' he told the Daily Mail Online.
3156
Referee: Anthony Taylor 6.
Advocaat shakes hands with opposition manager Alan Pardew knowing his side is in real relegation danger .
3157
Fly-half Ford was exceptional.
Leinster flanker Jordi Murphy rises high to claim a lineout as the Bath pack get ready to defend another attack .
3158
Olivier Rousteing has revealed that he chose Kim and Kanye to star in Balmain's latest campaign because they 'represent a family for the new world'.
3159
Lewis Hamilton celebrates winning the Chinese Grand Prix by spraying a hostess in the face with champagne .
But not everyone was offended by his behaviour.
3160
Mbaeri is on trial for fraud by abuse of position and conspiracy to commit fraud at the Old Bailey (pictured).
3161
The explanation is because although they get a lot more affection and attention from their parents, their parents have higher expectations as the first child.
3162
‘Under the rules, they couldn’t charge Gary Deegan because the referee was the wrong side of the incident.
‘We warned this was too far and it would cause problems.
3163
All flights were halted for about 20 minutes after the potential drone sighting raised fears that the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) could collide with a passenger jet.
3164
In recent years he has been caught up in other controversies, including being accused of racism after he called an Asian man a 'slope' when he joked about the construction of a bridge in Thailand during an episode of Top Gear.
3165
Ammann told reporters he 'liked the Bentley designer's comment.'
Volkswagen-owned Bentley has had a Continental in its lineup since 1984, while Ford retired the Continental name in 2002.
3166
The ace was Nicklaus' first on the hallowed turf of Augusta, but the veteran saw his achievement eclipsed by that of Camilo Villegas on a day which saw five hole-in-ones, levelling the record from 2002.
3167
She found herself unable to stop blurting out 'marshmallow' and immediately called her doctor for an appointment after she ran back to her car in shame.
3168
But the two students told GMA that they had heard the critically-injured student was doing much better by Friday.
Injured students were taken to at least three different hospitals, Hollowell said.
3169
awkward laughter.
'We both love one another so much that it was lovely to see him looking so happy despite knowing he has just weeks to live.'
3170
She also filmed the whistles and handed the evidence to officers, who followed up Poppy's complaint but had not taken further action, the force said.
3171
Samsung retook the lead in the global smartphone market in the first quarter, as gains in emerging market sales helped it overtake Apple, a research group said Wednesday.
3172
The Queen will lead the nation at a religious service .
The Queen is greeted at Sheffield Cathedral ahead of the traditional Royal Maundy Service .
3173
She uses  Chanel Vitalumière Aqua foundation in 60 Beige to prep her skin, the Urban Decay Naked Illuminated Powder, Charlotte Tilbury Colour Chameleon in Bronzed Garnet on her lips and says she 'always' has an Anastasia Beverly Hills Perfect Brow Pencil with her.
3174
Storing liquid hydrogen is notoriously difficult as it must be held at extremely low temperatures, which is expensive and tricky in the confines of a car.
3175
More than 10,000 dogs a year are poisoned after eating everyday items such as paracetamol and chocolate, a pet charity has warned.
3176
The gifts included: . A burnt DVD of the pilot episode of Neighbours where Max Ramsay breaks up a party on his namesake street by 'yelling at the flamin' lot of them'.
3177
Ronald Koeman has promised not leave Southampton this summer, even if Barcelona were to come calling.
No, no, no.
Not with Real Madrid.
3178
They find the same problems when Patrick checks out the hot tub.
He said the hotel was 'horrendous', but they decided to stay as it was just for a couple of days.
3179
The 21-year-old impressed many following Sunday's big victory with his manners and affable manor as well as his golfing skills.
3180
Frank Knight, 67, posted an apology on his Facebook account last week to Blackpool and the Oyston family, who run the Fylde coast club, over allegations he made on his social network account last year.
3181
Theo Walcott will finally open formal talks about his future in the next two weeks.
Walcott, pictured in training last week, is looking for assurances over his role in Arsene Wenger's squad .
3182
Recently, he was in charge of Mayweather's difficult physical battle against Marcos Maidana and Pacquiao's spectacular knock-out by Juan Manuel Marquez.
3183
'We didn't know anything about Floyd's condition when he was diagnosed and I remember thinking that people aren't treating those with it very well,' she said.
3184
Serena Williams never looked back after claiming a crucial break in the sixth game .
World No 1 Serena Williams claimed her eighth Miami Open title on Saturday night .
3185
Looking at him is like looking at Vincent.’
On Friday police divers found a laptop in a 25 metre-wide irrigation channel about 3km out of Leeton.
3186
Britain is paying professional aid workers up to £1,000 a day.
The Times quoted anonymous ‘insiders’ claiming that private firms were making huge profits of 50 per cent on aid projects.
3187
Elements of the deal are still being rubber-stamped and Ward’s WBA world title is unlikely to be on the line.
Liverpool boxer Paul Smith (left) is in line to take on Andre Ward on June 20 .
3188
Council chiefs paid £5,225 for caterers for the dinner in December last year at the Queens Hall in Newtonards, County Down, with hire of the venue costing £265.80.
3189
At least 44 people, including 18 civilians, were reported dead  in fierce fighting between opponents and supporters of Hadi in the southern port city today.
3190
He is currently training for his new job as an Air Ambulance pilot at three airbases in Cambridge, Norwich or Gloucestershire.
Sold out!
3191
According to Twitter users, many Starbucks locations around the country closed their doors so as not to give away free products during the shutdown .
3192
'Also I want to reflect on a bad moment that happened in the final against Andy when I lost the second set.
Djokovic then extended his apology to the boy's parents.
3193
Realtors in Indianapolis are looking to unload what's likely the Midwestern city's gaudiest and most famous home--a 26,000-square-foot castle built of ranch homes glued together by a former pimp turned construction king.
3194
Robert De Niro has said Hillary Clinton should be president, insisting she has 'earned the right' to be elected.
His political punditry however is not something new.
3195
Kenneth Lombardi, who goes by Ken, was a red carpet regular for CBS New York, interviewing stars from Oprah to Ashton Kutcher and Arnold Schwarzenegger.
3196
Incredibly, there was another incident involving a support car later on which saw Sebastien Chavanel also knocked off his bike and out of the race.
3197
Josh Darnbrough awoke after a party to find that his friend had tattooed his back .
'We've definitely seen an increase in people coming to us with home made tattoos since we opened.
3198
He said violence at matches has increased recently as the older men return to watching their team play in their retirement and fears there is a danger that they will try to encourage younger fans to join their 'gangs'.
3199
Five players ultimately were ejected from Thursday night's game, which the Royals won in 13 innings.
Among them was Cain, who has been hit by pitches four times this season.
3200
The blood is then drained from the carcass, while a Muslim recites a dedication.
'Chains such as KFC have started offering Halal products to attract a new, younger audience and a larger demographic.'
3201
Everton manager Roberto Martinez admits he would not be able to ease striker Romelu Lukaku through the remainder of the season even if he wanted to.
3202
This famous phallic cloud was captured by a nature photographer last year in Debyshire, central England .
You can see his Facebook page here .
3203
For comparison, the UK's HS2 rail line will run at 224mph (360km/h).
Maglev was first proposed as a method to propel trains as far back as the mid 20th century.
3204
1. Nissan Note Mk1 - 80.00% .
Seat Ibiza Mk4 - 85.03% .
4. Volvo V40 Mk2 - 96.80% .
6. Jeep Grand Cherokee Mk4 - 96.55% .
9. Lexus NX - 95.81% .
3205
Alondra is seen with her father, little brother and mother after she was reunited with her family when a DNA test proved she was not the daughter of the Houston woman who claimed her .
3206
Hamill admitted he was caught off guard when Lucas invited him to lunch.
The end result is a combination of the original recording and Hamill's new session, the actor said.
3207
One of the men 38-year-old Lianna Barrientos wed
This launched an investigation that unraveled a totaly of ten times Barrientos has allegedly walked down the aisle.
3208
The 38-year-old man had reportedly chewed and swallowed the entire glass bottle before lying down, at which point his family called Royal Darwin Hospital (pictured)
3209
Royal fan:
Meanwhile Prime Minister David Cameron has defended William and Kate for opting to use private health services rather than the NHS.
3210
I am very self-critical and I carry myself the same,' Suarez said.
'When things were not going well for me I was grateful for the support of people close to me.
3211
Muhammad Ali v Joe Frazier .
Ali ordered his corner-man Herbert Muhammad to cut off his gloves, saying he could not go on.
Frazier never forgave him.
3212
Cod stocks plummeted in the 1980s and 1990s, but the industry has steadily recovered since regulations were put in place in 2006 .
3213
Reliving his manager's post-match team talk, Higginbotham writes: '''You're the reason I'm driving up and down the f****** country to find another player, you're not f****** good enough," he yells at one player.
3214
But the family's own research into his condition led them to question the need for normal NHS radiotherapy - which would risk massive damage to healthy brain tissue and lead to lifelong disabilities.
3215
'In the year after Yewtree was launched there was an 81% increase in calls about sexual abuse to the NSPCC helpline and this surge continues.
3216
The jet took the happy couple's family and friends on a short sight-seeing tour over the Mediterranean.
She revealed: 'They are both members of staff at Air Malta.
3217
Among the residents who took part last year was White Dee .
She was also invited to speak on a fringe panel at the Conservative Party Conference last year.
3218
More than a dozen investigators were pictured examining the area where the bag was discovered on Saturday morning.
An investigation is ongoing.
3219
Blackpool magistrates heard that Drinnan, seen carrying kit bags at the club, was claiming £3,500 in disability benefits and had told the Department of Work and Pensions he did not have any hobbies and was in pain six days a week .
3220
As Tewksbury's back-up was corrupted they were forced to pay the ransom, but Sheehan also noted that the malware infection was not a data breach.
3221
Another glass-bottomed walkway opened in Pingjiang in 2014, suspended 600ft above the ground, it is actually a suspension bridge that stretches between two mountaintops.
3222
They are understood to be examining his links to groups which oppose the Syrian regime.
Later, police discovered the girl’s passport remained valid until 2016.
3223
Jahnae knew they needed a second opinion, so she hunted online for specialist who was willing .
Dr Teo said the $80,000 payment required for the surgery was standard.
3224
'I spend time outside with the animals and I always keep my eyes open to see if there is anything to photograph in my surroundings.
3225
Now Mrs Clitheroe hopes her husband will be home for the next milestone – their first wedding anniversary on May 9.
She added: 'I so hope he's home.
3226
After the worldwide mega-star died in 2009, the animals that made up his massive menagerie were spread across the U.S. to animals preserves, sanctuaries, and animal enthusiasts .
3227
Swansea's England Under 21 international Tom Carroll faces up to six weeks on the sidelines due to ankle ligament damage.
3228
He stated that the school district had reprimanded Altice after seeing photos of her having inappropriate contact with students but she was not fired, the Tribune reported.
3229
Dozens of bags of earth dug up by the gang during their tunnelling were also found by police .
The tunnel was around 50 metres long when the criminal gang was caught on March 6 .
3230
The school says that Rose only attended school 32 days out of this entire school year.
Rose McGrath's parents feel as though the school is seriously failing their child.
3231
Ever wondered where footballers chill out after training?
Real Madrid's training ground, which is part-owned by the council, is situated near Barajas airport .
3232
Doting dad: It's not known how long Kwentus has left but each day is an opportunity to build a bank of memories for his daughters' futures .
3233
'I wanted to try my friend’s trick and stop shampooing.'
Sarah recalled that during those first few weeks her hair was the 'greasiest' it had ever been.
3234
For $100 Paul's supporters can purchase branded versions of cornhall, the bean bag toss game that's especially popular with the southerners from Paul's native region .
3235
Although Brady wasn't able to visit the White House with his team-mates, he'll be fondly remembered for his performance in the Patriots' Super Bowl win.
3236
The incident came two days after a gun battle in the same state left two terror suspects and a police constable dead.
3237
Police initially thought the deaths may be suspicious, but after investigating they believe it was a ‘bizarre and tragic’ accident.
3238
Gambaccini, who recently returned to Radio 2 after being cleared over historic sex abuse claims, said: 'I wish Greg James well but it will never have the impact being a feature of his programme that it had on a Sunday.'
3239
Ed Balls was left briefly stumped by a basic maths question today after he gave a speech in Leeds .
You always rely on your mother-in-law.’
3240
Adult jail:
He said his client 'cried incessantly and told me how much she missed her mom' and she feared for her life and that of her father.
3241
Local police chief Terry Rozema has since spoken out to defend his officer and argue that deadly force was necessary.
An administrative review is underway.
3242
Colin is elated to have his question answered .
Lucasfilm sent this letter to seven-year-old Colin to ease his mind about one day being able to get married .
3243
'In terms of my contract, I think everybody else will make a big deal of it but for me it's just letting my agent and the club deal with it and whenever it gets sorted, it gets sorted.'
3244
Earlier this year, he claimed his helicopter was hit by ground fire, an allegation he was later forced to admit was false after an outcry from soldiers who were present.
3245
The council will now offer up to £200,000 to candidates, rather than the £160,000 enjoyed by former chief boss Martin Kimber.
3246
David Cameron said he started supporting Aston Villa because his uncle was 'involved in the club'.
He added: 'I'm not doing quiz time.'
3247
Fikile Mbalula said he met with the chairman of the ethics committee's investigatory chamber, Cornel Borbely, in Zurich this week to seek clarity on the status of the long-awaited report.
3248
And it is the strength of character shown in those closing minutes that has convinced him the season will end with silverware and a top-six spot in the Pro12.
3249
Willett was still visibly angry as he left the green after salvaging a bogey, though he had calmed down by time he spoke to reporters about 30 minutes later.
3250
Byrne said in an interview with Vogue Australia.
And with their collective talents combined, these leading Australian women are a force to be reckoned with.
3251
The crocodile skin, which had been farmed 'in a controlled environment' in Zambia, was legally imported into Japan before being re-exported.
3252
She does, however, wish people would stop telling her that 'the next baby will be just fine'; she explained that though she and her husband do plan to try again, they are still dealing with the loss of this baby.
3253
'In many small moments Bayern were better, so they deserved to win.'
The defender said: 'Bayern were not the better team, I can only remember two chances.
3254
An average ‘full works’ funeral now costs £5,423, the report said.
Costs are going up, it found, partly for technical reasons.
3255
Fresh start:
During an interview with the financial news outlet, Ells said farmers are not currently ordered to use non-GMO feed.
3256
He has long led the Mercy campaigns and has now addressed a message to Indonesian President Joko Widodo .
The heart is his last ever painting .
3257
Foreign nannies paid as little as $250 a week are not the answer to limited childcare, says Mr Shorten .
3258
His Facebook page has been inundated with hundreds of tributes, including messages from people who never met him but were inspired by ‘an Australian body building legend who will never be forgotten’.
3259
On Monday, prison officials revealed he is suspected of killing Damion Soward, a 37-year-old inmate from San Bernardino County serving 82 years to life for a first-degree murder conviction.
3260
He references Hurricane Katrina's impact on New Orleans and says that detonating nuclear bombs near the bottom of the ocean would create waves almost a mile high that would sweep inland.
3261
With legislators keen to expand online learning at Florida universities, UF's online graduate program became available to students in 2014, with a huge $15million assigned to start-up and initial costs.
3262
The mission will allow scientists to study the last major body between Earth and Jupiter that has yet to be explored.
3263
In 1981 he became head of the family, and in 1992 became one the most influential gangsters in the United States - following the death of members of the Gambino family including their leader John Gotti.
3264
And Indiana University law professor Deborah Widiss told the Associated Press on Wednesday that Religious Freedom Restoration Act laws have not 'been a sort of blank check to discriminate.'
3265
Hardy was informed in a letter by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell that the probe determined there was 'sufficient credible evidence that Hardy engaged in conduct that violated NFL policies in multiple respects.'
3266
A procedure exists to deal with criminal suspects thought to have mental illness.
A judge jailed him for eight years and eight months and told him he stole the girl's innocence.
3267
Originally thought to have stood around 12hh tall (similar to Dartmoor and Exmoor ponies), by the end of the Roman period, the average Fell was more than a hand higher.
3268
He said working on laptops and tablets rather than desktop computers, as well as using mobile phones, can affect posture and put the back under extra strain.
3269
During the weeks it had been running it also purchased a fake Louis Vuitton handbag, a baseball cap with a hidden camera and 200 Chesterfield cigarettes.
3270
She was described by police as caucasian, 150cm tall, with blue eyes and brown shoulder length hair.
She was last seen wearing a blue jeans, black jumper and black shoes.
3271
It wasn’t easy.
When I was about 15 I realised I could be a professional goalkeeper.
‘I was only 16 when I made my debut for a professional club.
3272
In 2012, Esparza was arrested in connection to the slaying when she re-entered the United States for an academic conference .
Esparza later divorced Van.
3273
His mother explained that Brayden, left before the overdose, has struggled with drug addiction since he was 15.
Brayden had long been battling with addiction, she said.
3274
With its front left leg already placed on its mother’s neck, the young elephant clambers onto her with its right leg.
3275
From a series of scrums on the home line, Navidi picked up and went by the posts with Anscombe's conversion reducing the deficit to four points.
3276
Its website says: ‘Using a Wi-Fi power sensor and a cloud service with some smart pattern detection algorithms, Neurio monitors your home's electricity to figure out what your appliances are up to - without the need to install sensors on every device.’
3277
That means the director of cricket will probably be a hands-on presence in the dressing room with overall responsibility for coaching and selection, with the panel of selectors almost certainly being disbanded.
3278
In order to make it happen, the Houston resident got a little help from Facebook.
A search of his truck turned up an illegal pistol.
3279
Models like Cindy Crawford (left)  were huge stars in 80s and 90s and now their daughters like Caia Gerber (right) are making their own names in the fashion world .
3280
Jack Wilshere .
In 2011 he was given a police warning after spitting on a taxi driver who refused to take him home because he was too drunk.
3281
Another passenger told the Sydney Morning Herald  of the horror and panic of being on board while the ship was battered had left her traumatised .
3282
He photographed around 750 babies in schools across each of the states to create Underwater Babies, which will be released on April 7.
Snapshot:
3283
PER MERTESACKER v DANIEL STURRIDGE .
This time last year if you asked people who they would rather have in their team, it would be Aaron Ramsey all day long.
3284
For thousands of years, phallic objects have been used symbolically as a means to boost fertility and ward off evil spirits - but their use as sexual aids has a long history, too.
3285
Dozhd TV, an independent network, fears the video launching Clinton's White House bid may fall foul of Putin's 'gay propaganda' laws - which allows the imposition heavy fines for promoting homosexuality to people under the age of 18.
3286
Above, a flight information board at Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris, where several flights were cancelled .
‘The second cause has been the number of strikes in Europe.
3287
Then, authorities released a convenience store video in October which purported to show the mystery winner, in an attempt to help identify him, at which point a former co-worker of Tipton's subsequently contacted authorities and tipped them off.
3288
He has been told to return to a London police station for further questioning at a later date.
According to her website Miss Santillan worked in London, Paris and Miami as an escort.
3289
Nigel Pearson has revealed he has turned to former manager Howard Wilkinson to help Leicester's survival bid.
'I have a lot of respect for people I have worked with.
3290
And in the city of Boston itself the figure falls to just 15 per cent of residents in favour of the death penalty and 66 per cent arguing he should be caged for life.
3291
'And with the massive interest in this fight, the number of fans looking to attend the official weigh-in is going to be something we've never seen before.
3292
Speaking from behind a curtain she told the jury: 'He told me a little bit about him and his ex-wife.
'He said if you don't want to do it then you can't leave,' she said.
3293
Demonstrators hold signs on the steps of the Arkansas state Capitol thanking Hutchinson for calling for changes to the religious freedom measure.
3294
Charlene has an impressive sporting pedigree of her own and was an Olympic swimmer .
Adding some glamour: Model Karolina Kurkova and Paralympic cycling star Sarah Storey .
3295
The Championship club, who play at the Amex Stadium (pictured), are the first to provide such training .
3296
Peter Quillin (left) may be nicknamed 'Kid Chocolate' but he shows none of the expected arrogance .
His words read as a tasty recipe to become a champion.
3297
Capello resigned as England Manager in February 2012 just two days after publicly criticising the FA’s decision and obviously remains bitter about the whole affair.
3298
He wants a player to be in perfect condition when he returns and argues that rushing people back runs the risk of a fresh injury.
3299
We don't have another player like him in the squad.
Martinez says he has 'got a bigger picture' of Everton's progress and does not rely on 10 months of results .
3300
The 360-degree views are inspirational.
The kids’ club is the best we have experienced.
All are comfortable, a good size and most come with private balconies.
3301
Ms Jones told Judge Neil Ford QC at a preliminary hearing: 'The car in which the bodies were transported to Lincoln has been lost.
3302
It is believed the pair boarded a plane from New York to Germany on March 22, violating a custody court order .
3303
'Religion continues to dominate our everyday lives and we see that the total number of people who consider themselves to be religious is actually relatively high,' said Jean-Marc Leger, president of Win/Gallup International Association.
3304
NHK said the tsunami -- an irregular wave that alters the sea level, and not necessarily a huge event -- were believed to have already arrived at remote Yonaguni, although no details were yet available.
3305
But the win came in the wake of Lukaku’s new agent Mino Raiola saying Lukaku would never have signed for Everton had he been his representative earlier.
3306
According to the EA Sports performance data the giant Ivory Coast star ran 6.7 miles in Chelsea’s 1-0 win over Manchester United, only a tenth of a mile less than the distance covered by rival striker Radamel Falcao.
3307
The jockey from Hawick is propelled into an almost perfect 360 degree trajectory.
Colliding with the barrier forces the amateur jockey into a spectacular mid-air somersault .
3308
Horan had a embarrassing moment when he slipped over while carrying McIlroy's clubs on the  course .
'If I went on the bag with him, he would come on stage and sing with us.
3309
At the same time, California's drought means the basin has not held much water recently, Mohler said.
The fire was reported shortly after 6 p.m. Saturday.
3310
I want them to understand it’s been a bit much for me this season, with everyone talking about it every minute.’
WHAT HE MEANT:  You need me more than ever now.
3311
The extra points were missed on that occasion and Clegg was able to cut the difference to six with a second penalty in the 23rd minute.
3312
Bruck, of Maybee, disappeared after attending the party in Newport on October 26, about 15 miles away from where her body was discovered Friday in Monroe County's Ash Township.
3313
'When we see you on those 10 occasions, your neck doesn't go into spasm.
Mr Morgan is pictured outside Central London County Court where the fraud case hearing continues .
3314
Experts said Greece could get a discount on gas – most of which it imports from Russia.
A Greek repayment of around £325million is due today.
3315
The result left Russia needing one win from Sunday's three matches to reach the final and bag a first Fed Cup title since 2008.
3316
The christening gown given to her by Hitler and embroidered with swastikas was rumoured to have gone on auction in 2010.
3317
When arrested, Abberley told police officers that he had daubed the words 'the enemy within' in red paint on the palace's walls, Westminster Magistrates' Court was told.
3318
Willett felt he benefited from ideal conditions as the 27-year-old was in the second group out at 7.56am .
He helped settle the nerves quite quickly.
3319
He confessed to his actions in a Facebook post in December, writing: 'I loved my little boy more than anyone in the world.
3320
Kelley Mulsinger was greeted with a party and several family members when she flew in to BWI from Texas to see her fiance .
3321
He also managed to fit walking in New York Fashion Week this February into his teaching schedule, modelling in shows during New York City public schools' week-long winter break.
3322
The woman, who has been named locally as Nguyen Thi Hang, 35, was stopped by a VietJet Air employee who believed her two pieces of hand luggage weighed more than the 7kg permitted.
3323
Manuel Pellegrini's position at Manchester City is under threat as they fight for fourth place .
After that, City vowed to be different.
3324
In fact, Donatella interviewed Riccardo for Interview Magazine in 2011, telling him she found his most recent collection at the time to be 'very beautiful - super sexy' before adding that she would 'wear all of it'.
3325
United are believed to have responded to the signal from the Germany midfielder and are confident of agreeing a fee with Dortmund.
3326
It is not my responsibility to make the sport more interesting.
Most observers thought Ferrari’s win in Malaysia might be a one-off created by the absurdly hot weather.
3327
'We would like to apologise for the delayed arrival at Selhurst Park and thank you for your patience and support on the day.'
3328
Smith told a reporter Friday he didn't kill Krueger, and Diaz said he was innocent.
'It is also in a moment like this that we are reminded of how fragile and previous life is.'
3329
On his Instagram, he said: 'Moving forward!
David Alaba is looking to get back to fitness for Bayern Munich now his cast has been removed .
3330
Suffolk County District Attorney Tom Spota said the woman was treated at a hospital following the assault.
But officers soon found him cowering inside, the source said.
3331
The filmmaker laughs at his fellow students as hundreds of fish leap at them from the water .
Asian carp are known for getting easily frightened by boats and leaping from water .
3332
The teenager said she managed to hid the pregnancy for months because 'no-one cared, and no-one asked.'
'Luckily the baby boy was strong enough to cry out.
3333
Baggies midfielder Craig Gardener (right) shoots to score his side's second goal against Crystal Palace .
Much like he achieved at Palace last year.
3334
Victoria's Secret Angel Lily Donaldson, who has been in the industry for years, also adds some glamour to the charity campaign .
3335
Superdrug has launched a range of creams with ingredients normally found in teenage spot treatments – as well as those for anti-ageing .
And experts say that growing stress levels are a key factor.
3336
Billionaire Jeff Bezos takes in the 'Campo de' Fiori' in Rome on Tuesday as he enjoyed a spring break with family .
3337
A poll of 15,560 family doctors found that one in six is considering going part-time and 7 per cent are contemplating quitting altogether (file picture)
3338
'We've got our reasons for it, we've still got enough to keep us out of trouble I hope.
James Ward-Prowse slots home a penalty for Southampton against Hull as they moved up to fifth .
3339
'Josh is keen to appear in person at the disciplinary hearing and we will most strongly support him by all means available.'
Can't comment on anything, but I am seeing them and appreciate it.'
3340
A new species of frog has been found in Brazil.
Called Hylodes japi, it was found to mate underground in secret chambers.
3341
In a letter to his lawyer K claimed that he had  healed the patient by removing his 'poisonous' teeth - adding that the patient was 'not psychotic' but 'marvellous'.
3342
West Brom captain Darren Fletcher wore multicoloured boots on 'Jeff Astle day' at The Hawthorns .
3343
Violence flared days after Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini said in remarks reported by local media that foreigners should 'take their bags and go'.
3344
It was not a hit and hope.
‘This is better than Beckham, more audacious than Rooney’s last season, This is one of the best strikes we’ve ever seen.
3345
Ms Sturgeon, meanwhile, revealed that Twitter is her 'bad habit' as she offered an insight into her life away from the political spotlight.
3346
Pakistani supermodel Ayyan Ali (pictured) has been in jail since March 14, when she caught with over $500,000 in her carry-on bag in Islamabad airport .
3347
This follows recent rumours which suggested a 4-inch version of the iPhone 6 is in development to replace the iPhone 5C with a lower cost and 'female friendly' design.
3348
Further scrutiny of Williams's record turned up other questionable claims, including dodging rocket fire over Israel and seeing a body floating through the French Quarter of New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina.
3349
The addition of the skilled Spain international is undoubtedly a major asset ahead of Leverkusen, who crushed Hamburg SV 4-0 in their league game on Saturday.
3350
Woods is still well behind the leader, hot young American star Jordan Spieth (above) This as Woods, competing after a two-month absence to retool his game, showed flashes of his old magic as he fired his best score at the Masters in four years in Friday's second round.
3351
Luke Lazarus was sentenced on March 27 for raping an 18-year-old at his father's SOHO nightclub on May 12, 2013 .
Posted week after sentencing!'.
3352
Father-of-one Szilveszter injected petroleum jelly into his penis as he wanted to make it bigger.
The father said he had learnt his lesson and won't meddle with his penis size again.
3353
Through provocation and bullying, says Ackroyd, Hitchcock was being professional.
In the shower scene, ‘chocolate syrup was used for the blood’.
3354
People magazine reported that the wedding flowers were prepared at one of the city's oldest florists - Fiori Della Signoria and set the couple back £95,000 ($136,000).
3355
While the booster landing didn't go to plane, the launch was successful.
The delivery of food and equipment will arrive Friday .
3356
'So for Robin to score the winner late on and take us 6 points clear at the top of the table was very important'.
3357
Pep Guardiola will return to the Nou Camp in the semi-finals with his Bayern Munich team.
Real Madrid vs Juventus is the other tie.
BAYERN MUNICH .
3358
She planned to open conversation by saying that prison goes beyond padlocked walls.
Thomas Bart Whitaker never admitted to being a sociopath but said he always felt different form other people.
3359
Bibi (not pictured) had been married to Siddique for three years, during which time she had suffered repeated domestic abuse, according to her brother .
3360
The jump came after the internet watchdog was told that it could proactively seek out abusive content online, in order to shut it down.
3361
She told Evan Davis that Ed Miliband had been 'bullied' by the Conservatives into ruling out a coalition deal . Labour leader Mr Miliband insisted at the weekend that he is 'not interested in deals' with the SNP.
3362
The footage, captured on camera in Saudi Arabia by Mohammed Mohsen, shows the sandstorm sweeping into the area in which he stands at a staggering speed.
3363
He later died in hospital from his injuries .
A driver who witnessed the accident tried to chase after the car but eventually lost it in traffic.
3364
When he was sentenced in September, Mr Recorder Mark Milliken-Smith told him: 'These were wicked, mean and utterly cowardly offences which have and will have serious consequences on these young women and those around them for a very long time.'
3365
It's when the condition becomes more challenging and extra help may be needed.
A rocking chair can help as it is soothing and relaxing.
3366
For example in November 2012, one estate agent sold a three bedroom period mid-terraced home in need of moderate renovation for £350,000.
3367
A report by the Henry Jackson Society last month revealed terror suspects were using human couriers instead of email and phones following the leaks by Snowden.
3368
Ipswich (home to Nottingham Forest) will make sure of a play-off place if they win and both Brentford (away to Reading) and Wolves (away to Wigan) fail to win.
3369
He is being fed three times a day at the dairy farm where he was born, in Narnaul, northern India.
Local vet Sukhbir Singh said that despite Nandi's appearance, he is healthy and thriving.
3370
It is equipped with a specially-designed two-stroke engine which uses up to two litres of fuel an hour depending on the model and conditions.
3371
His research showed that female teachers far more often than male teachers use social media to lure students, creating an electronic 'paper trail' that may aid prosecutions.
3372
Then, a relative spotted a helmet bobbing in the water, prompting Brandon Cronkhite to race to the pond to try and save the children.
3373
But despite using a wooden spoon to give the actor a fighting chance, Deng still won the match.
Turning to Deng, he says: 'You want me to play you?'
3374
He said: ‘I don’t know all the words but I have listened to it being sung more times than I care to remember.’
He said: ‘It’s everyone’s dread to lose a child.
3375
Herrig and VanZant will face each other in the Octagon on Saturday night .
VanZant admitted it feels surreal to be part of the UFC having made her debut aged 20 .
3376
Police were called to the office and found that the 26-year-old worker had blood on her clothes, but there was no sign of a baby.
3377
The East-leading Atlanta Hawks, meanwhile, stumbled on the road, losing to Detroit 105-95.
Thabo Sefolosha scored 19 points for the Hawks, who have dropped two of three.
3378
Twenty-two-year-old Rachel Jaajaa and 29-year-old Aaron Tate's daughter was found on Friday night at a McDonald’s in Elyria when a patron called 911 after seeing the baby was left alone.
3379
'That was probably most raw and powerful moment of the whole story when Sophie got to sit down with My Huong’s mum,' Sara told Daily Mail Australia.
3380
According to its description online, a traditional cotton case has a 'rough surface' that 'siphons moisture' away, leaving the face dry and dull.
3381
The driver also has a responsibility to refuse to take a seriously injured prisoner to the station if he belongs in a hospital, Stewart said.
3382
Sterling is wanted by Manchester City this summer for £50million as he stalls over new contract .
This summer, Liverpool will also try to sign James Milner from City.
3383
Mr Racsits said he went to pick his daughter up after she called to say some girls wanted to assault her, the Newcastle Herald reports.
3384
And Amnesty International said that claims of persecution by the Vietnamese cannot have been adequately assessed while still at sea.
3385
The intriguing fossils were rediscovered when the president of the Official Loch Ness Fan Club, Gary Campbell, was invited to the museum and spotted them.
3386
Juan Mata (right) says Manchester United need to look at the next seven Premier League games as 'finals'
But we still have some finals left before the end,' he told MUTV.
3387
Sportsmail understands Mackay was close to suffering the sack in February but victory at Reading granted him a stay of execution.
3388
This Twitterer fully supported the Japanese woman's actions, hailing it as 'the best revenge' @womenspeakup pointed out that the guy should be counting his lucky stars that it was his Apple and not his, er, banana that paid the price of cheating .
3389
Mr Okines spoke of his 'very special girl' in a poem read out in church.
At 13 months, Hayley still wore clothes for a three-month-old, so her mother took her to their GP.
3390
Kendall Jenner, meanwhile, posted a provocative that depicts the side of her entirely naked bottom, with a car balanced on the top of one cheek, yet despite the stipulation regarding 'close ups of fully-nude buttocks', the shot has been deemed acceptable.
3391
Hashim Amla has signed a short-term contract to play five matches for Derbyshire, starting next month .
3392
Dallas police falsely reported Talib had been arrested for throwing bottles last June during an NFL camp afterparty, the Denver Post reported.
3393
Two young Muslims have put a 14-year-old Pakistani boy in hospital with burns to 55 percent of his body after they set him on fire because he is a Christian.
3394
The first boxes were erected in Jersey in 1852 as a trial before appearing across mainland Britain.
The stamps honour the first post box in the UK.
3395
De Blasio also noted that a lot of the work that proved to be successful from her 2000 Senate bid would be repeated this year, citing her efforts to listen to what was happening to everyday people.
3396
The incident happened off the coast of Northern Ireland and is the second time in two months that fishermen have reported being dragged by a suspected submarine (file picture)
3397
Temperatures in London of 21C (70F) this Tuesday and 22C (72F) on Wednesday are expected to be better than in many holiday destinations.
3398
The package was criticised at a time when his 'Nicholson Challenge' was imposing £20billion in efficiency savings on the NHS.
3399
Cassandra Winter said the bugle music at dawn was a special moment due to all the devastation that the town had suffered in the last week.
3400
The author said Kate (pictured right) hasn’t lived up to the fashion icon reputation of Princess Diana (left) Miss Atwood said she thinks the duchess is cautious when it comes to clothes and is told what to wear by advisers.
3401
A Scottish Government spokesman said: ‘We remain open to the consideration of any evidence-based proposals that can contribute to reducing alcohol-related harm.’
3402
Alice Pond applies  purple nail paint to a baby tawny owl.
They are fully grown at three-months-old and are able to break up the food themselves.
3403
'I want to see them,' Muna Haji told The Washington Post.
Four other survivors from the massacre at Garissa University College were found yesterday.
3404
Mrs Mulholland said she has now started to track her husband’s movements to make sure he isn’t seeing other women.
He claims he’ll show he’s remained faithful by doing another lie detector test.
3405
We told yesterday how Karen's best friend Julie Malone praised the online community for sharing pictures of Karen across Facebook and Twitter during the four-day police investigation.
3406
Missy Skins Iris Leather Dress at Nasty Gal .
But Beatrice's passion for fashion isn't without critics, with the princess having come under increasing fire of late for her perceived aversion to work.
3407
December 7, 2012 - Erica Kinsman files a police report claiming she was raped, though she can not identify the attacker.
3408
Fernando Hierro believes that Real Madrid can win the Champions League for a second successive season .
'The urge to be champions of Europe is in the club's DNA.'
3409
This a carer partying with friends and kissing her boyfriend in the hours after taking cash from two frail pensioners she stole £5,000 from.
3410
A different type of Kate effect is being seen outside the maternity unit where she is due to give birth.
She has a classic style and is a fashion leader.
3411
Miranda Kerr used to earn a living modelling lingerie, but the star decided to ditch her bra as she did some errands in Santa Monica last month .
3412
The robbery took place at 12.30pm at a Lloyds Bank branch (pictured) in Fairwater, Cardiff, police said .
3413
The Brugger family are hoping that the new treatment will mean there are happier times ahead .
A hospital bill shows the $16,000 cost of Chris's Brentuximab Vedotin treatment .
3414
Lewis Hamilton, England, Mercedes, 1:32.571.
Daniel Ricciardo, Australia, Red Bull, 1:33.832.
Carlos Sainz Jr., Spain, Toro Rosso, 1:34.462.
3415
Under Italian law, both parents were granted equal custody.
Ms Garrett has previously said in the years since her daughter's return to Italy that the girls were unhappy.
3416
Professor Davies warns that the virus can remain on tanning beds, infecting other sunbed users .
Although the initial symptoms of genital herpes clear up, the virus remains dormant.
3417
According to the Daily Telegraph he told BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour programme: 'We used to have a very big separation between our public lives and our private lives - now they are so mixed up and integrated.
3418
We'll try and show a different PSG at Barcelona next week.
Barcelona manager Luis Enrique was delighted with his side's showing and reserved special praise for Suarez.
3419
In its report on Saturday, the Journal said the DOJ and the FCC were nearing the final stages of . scrutinizing the deal.
3420
Three other IPEN businesses have also faced opposition from local authorities.
Mothers say eating placenta has helped to increase their milk supply and reduce post-natal bleeding.
3421
Another image shows newly-single Louis partying at the nightclub beforehand in the company of a green-haired young lady holding up a cigarette, with the caption 'love' over the image.
3422
You can go further into Guernsey's wartime heritage.
Bright days ahead: A view of the pretty coastal enclave of Gorey from the ramparts of Mont Orgueil Castle .
3423
He told the court he was on the ship alone and had drunk two pints of lager, three glasses of red wine and around five vodka and Cokes that evening .
3424
Get currency for the layover .
Singapore airport offers travellers a free two-hour city tour, which includes the famous Fountain of Wealth .
3425
'Just delighted to go home with the family now,' Patrick said.
The Lyttle family has previously said they believe the charge against Lyttle should be dropped .
3426
However Diaz has not been fired.
He said he did not want to get in front of the church to begin with, but believes his homosexuality no longer exists .
3427
Aftershocks rocked the Himalayan country this morning with residents describing the tremors in terrifying detail.
'But it doesn't mean that the earthquakes go away.'
3428
Martin Odegaard was chased by a host of top European clubs before he left Stromsgodset for Real Madrid.
Clubs: Stromsgodset (2014-15), Real Madrid (2015- .
3429
The GBAD system is being designed for use on light tactical vehicles such as the Humvee and Joint Light Tactical Vehicle.
3430
Despite looking like an ideal holiday retreat, the cabin also comes with permission to live in it all year round .
It became a National Park in 2005.
3431
It’s purely up to him.
Grealish (left) has played for the Republic of Ireland's youth teams but England will hope to turn his head .
3432
An Indiana university was in lockdown late on Friday night after a 'likely prank call' about an armed person near the main administration building, school officials said.
3433
Gareth Bale breaks the deadlock and gives Real Madrid the lead!
Excellent cross from James Rodriguez, looking sharp despite just returning to the first team.
3434
Romo's relatives said Lozano was prone to acts of violence claiming that the 35-year-old threatened to kill Romo and had stabbed him once before.
3435
'Nothing in the (McCutcheon) decision suggests that an exchange of contributions for specific official acts is quid pro quo corruption only if the arrangement is stated 'explicitly' or 'expressly.''
3436
About 50 different folklore groups and nearly two thousand people will be joining the celebrations.
Little drums are used to scare away angry spirits.
3437
Researchers have developed a model that combined long-term fisheries data with climate model projections from the Met Office.
3438
British boxer Nicola Adams is hoping to become a double Olympic gold medallist in Rio .
Natasha Jonas, pictured in blue at London 2012, announced her retirement from boxing on April 7 .
3439
The Ranger (farthest right) has recently been towed to Texas to be cut into salvage .
A Navy spokesman said the USS Independence and the USS Kitty Hawk are not 'currently available.'
3440
She loved her work with children.
Despite her advanced age, she was working for the mission's educational outreach programme at the time of her murder.
3441
Palaeontologists are referring to Chilesaurus diegosuarezi as a 'platypus' dinosaur because of its bizarre combination of characteristics including its small skull and feet, which are more like those seen on long-neck dinosaurs.
3442
'But when I saw him my heart melted - he was so cute.
Often Smokey will spend time with restaurant-goers, keeping them entertained while they wait for their food .
3443
The panel said the current plan would use an Orion spacecraft to move crewmembers from Earth into orbit and back down.
Just getting there will take up to nine months.
3444
He added: 'But with enough nice trifle stuff that we keeping eating more of it.'
'A couple of people tried it with me last night and agreed it was terrible.
3445
A web profile apparently matching that of ‘shameless liar’ Andrew O’Clee, 36, has been spotted on a dating site, where he claimed to be ‘looking for a relationship’.
3446
Superwoman Teresa naps next to past-it Superman, Ghalib, on a dodgy, dated sofa .
'This project tries to humanise superheroes.
Everyone is a superhero.
3447
Mr Farage revealed that as a schoolboy he 'always questioned authority'
This schoolboy trait has now become part of his political persona.
3448
The average shoe size in the UK has risen from a dainty 4½ in 1900 to a roomy six today.
She’s only 5 ft 3 in, but Scarlett, 30, has feet  larger than the average woman.
3449
Despite his age, the Duke still undertakes a large number of royal engagements.
His wife the Duchess of Kent has withdrawn from public life, dropping her HRH title.
3450
Mr Galloway said another immigrant, Miroslav Ritter, stayed with Petr Tancos and Dzurkova at their last address.
He only received about £10 from Martin Tancos.
3451
Gary Neville tore into Manchester City following their defeat against Crystal Palace by insisting the champions have a 'mentality problem' which prevents them from winning back-to-back titles.
3452
She said the Government's strategy included cattle movement controls, vaccination in 'edge' areas around disease hotspots, and culling where the disease is rife.
3453
David Silva (right) celebrates scoring in City's 3-0 defeat of Crystal Palace earlier this season .
The Midland, Cross Country and East Anglia were also shut.
3454
Posing: The outfit was accompanied by bronze pointy kitten heels and a matching thin belt defining her waist .
She has also admitted to enjoying a bid on eBay.
3455
In the world of 'Rogue One,' Edwards said the 'absence of Jedi is omnipresent.'
The characters in the film realize that the 'gods are not coming to save us,' he said.
3456
Sterling added: 'I set targets for myself at the start of the season and I’m probably a few goals behind where I wanted to be.
3457
Tarnished star: Kim Richards leaving the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in Beverly Hills, where she had an emotionally-charged interview with Dr Phil McGraw after her arrest last week.
3458
After dragging the man onto the ground Collins is seen raising his fists and punching him repeatedly in the face .
He is likely to keep his job.
3459
'He produces skyspaces, and his art has a really beautiful relationship with light perception, stars, the heavens, all things celestial,' he said.
3460
City overtook Liverpool with one match to go before being crowned champions last season and in 2012, Sergio Aguero's injury-time strike in the final game sank Manchester United on goal difference.
3461
Hill has had part of her toe removed and a skin graft from her inner thigh and then after about a week doctors will decide if she needs anymore treatment.
3462
Anyone who has seen that football match knows it shouldn’t have been close.
Sherwood now takes his team to Tottenham and Manchester City.
3463
Yaya Toure will not be forced out of Manchester City, but the club are set to make him available this summer .
But it seems the club are now happy for him to leave.
3464
Water babes:
Cox Jennifer Ehr had told her colleagues before the start of the race: ‘Let’s do this for everyone who made it happen.
Winners:
3465
Experts, on the other hand, are certain cage diving has nothing to do with the increased great white activity.
3466
Officers searched the An Noor community centre in west London last night after a businessman appeared in court charged with murdering Abdul Hadi Arwani, and another man was arrested over his death.
3467
'Edi is under contract at Paris Saint-Germain and there are several factors that come into play with respect to his future.'
3468
But the presence of Costa and Luis at Stamford Bridge coupled with the emergence of Gimenez as a regular at Atletico may convince Miranda to join Chelsea this time around.
3469
The researchers say many Americans believe that even if it exists, global warming is not their problem .
The findings divide Americans into six distinct subsets.
3470
Stephen Taylor, went missing in the Solent after leaving Lee-on-Solent in Hampshire at about 11.30am yesterday in his kayak with the intention of paddling west to Lepe Beach.
3471
Owen Farrell is hoping to be fit for Saracens' Champions Cup semi-final clash against Clermont on April 18 .
The knee is feeling good.
3472
It was only 24 hours later that a nurse realised she was in agonising pain and called an ambulance.
‘She was then hoisted back into the bed.
3473
ABC released a fourth promo video on Thursday on the eve of Bruce Jenner's sitdown interview with Diane Sawyer airing in which he is expected to talk about his gender transition.
3474
And more so, Williams claims that Chokal-Ingam's experiment 'is insulting to what black people endure in this country, both institutionally and culturally'.
3475
Lionel Messi and Barcelona came out on top in El Clasico but he has fewer league goals than Ronaldo .
Serie A: Torino, Sassuolo, Udinese, Empoli, Chievo, Atalanta, Cesena, Cagliari, Parma.
3476
A solitary Eden Hazard strike in the first half was enough for Jose Mourinho's side, who showed how to 'park the bus' with a terrific defensive display as Manchester United struggled to break them down and create any clear-cut chances.
3477
Neuer gets down well to deny Bellarabi during their German cup match in western Germany .
Leverkusen's Bellarabi and Bayern's Gotze challenges for the ball during a German  cup match .
3478
Until 1.4 million years ago it was too cold to inhabit southeast Spain.
Published in the Journal of Human Evolution, the paper suggests climate change affected the amount of resources available.
3479
Hazeltine is believed to have returned fire, but it was unclear whether Paul Devillier was wounded.
That is when investigators say the 56-year-old opened fire on Hazeltine.
3480
Rodrigo Gularte, 42, asked 'Am I being executed?' as he was being chained up to be transported to the jungle clearing on Nusakambangan island where he and seven other death row inmates were killed by firing squad in the early hours of Wednesday morning.
3481
Possession of any amount of marijuana is illegal in Kansas and can land offenders with up to a year in jail and a $1,000 fine.
3482
Mary Portas says the problem with Tesco 'is that no one really likes the company' Sir Richard Greenbury, former chief executive of Marks & Spencer .
3483
Given that he played 106 times for his country that is some compliment.
The Atleti boss confronts Raphael Varane during Real Madrid's 4-1 Champions League final win last year .
3484
'I think some foreign media are more sensitive about the topic compared to local media.
On Twitter, Hamilton was described as a 'bully' and 'disgusting'.
3485
Now, it will tragically be the venue for her funeral .
A vigil has been created at the school where the popular 26-year-old teacher taught drama and English .
3486
Sequester is offering to sell information on people suffering from 43 different health conditions – from skin problems to insomnia and migraines.
3487
The research carried out by Harvard, Columbia and Duke University found that the majority of angry gun owners were young or middle aged men.
3488
Arsenal have been here before.
But even as recently as this season, Wilshere was hitting form before going off against Manchester United.
3489
He initially denied any involvement in the attack when arrested.
Currently in foster care, Major’s parenting was said to be 'out-of-control'.
3490
'Nobodies interested, said McCubbery.
The duo plan to launch a digital campaign in hopes of finding a distributor to get their products on the market .
3491
After that, we will assess where we are and move on.'
Plus it enables us to start working now with a manager we know will be in place next season.
3492
Broner, a three-time world champion, took to Instagram to show off the food on show.
English chef Gordon Ramsay has been offered ringside seats in exchange for cooking a post-match meal .
3493
His elated family are ‘over the moon’ that the surgery was more of a success than they dared to even dream it would be.
It was such a beautiful moment.’
3494
Ouch!
Trapped:
He finally pulls himself free leaving behind a fair portion of skin behind on the waxing strips in the process .
In recovery:
3495
Mr Abbott publicly backed his friend by introducing her on ABC's Australian Story, when she detailed her struggles as a man and then as a trans-woman.
3496
Another of his most high-profile successes was the recovery of Matisse's Le Jardin after it was stolen from the Museum of Modern Art in Stockholm by a burglar armed with a sledgehammer.
3497
They said they were enjoying their last ski run together when Carwyn's sister 'lost her ski on a jump and at this point Carwyn skied ahead'.
Family friends in Brecon yesterday paid tribute to the boy.
3498
Hall stole nothing from the victims.
She angrily approached him and he burst into tears, giving her a false name, before climbing down from the balcony.
3499
And he said that her friends had noticed changes in Ms Speirs after she met and then married 28-year-old Mr Adusah, who was based in Britain but is originally from Ghana.
3500
Lloyd Burton, a young supporter of the club, also lost his battle with cancer this week.
After a courageous fight, he lost his final battle at 7.05am yesterday morning.
3501
'I love it, you can make anything from £100 a day to £100 an hour, and if you film a commercial, you may even be paid a buyout fee.'
3502
Justin Welby will say in his Easter sermon that 148 Christian students slaughtered by Somali gunmen on Thursday were ‘witnesses’ to their faith and suffered ‘cruel deaths’.
3503
'Rising to the Challenge: My Leadership Journey' is expected to be a business memoir that positions her as a practical problem-solver who knows how to unlock Americans' hidden potential.
3504
The researchers said runways could be synced with taxiing aircraft, to help capture birds’ attention before an aircraft takes off.
3505
Meanwhile, four Britons who were detained . in Turkey on suspicion of trying to cross illegally into Syria . were arrested on their return to England yesterday, police . said.
3506
Almost ready: The pictures show Captain Scott's team preparing to depart on their ill-fated Terra Nova Expedition of 1912.
3507
The Serie A giants are reportedly weighing up an offer for the summer.
Juventus scouts were at the Stade de France to watch Oscar in action .
3508
Daisy, who has been working as a model for years, shows off her flawless skin and razor-sharp cheekbones in the new shoot to promote the brand's contouring range .
3509
It’s all testosterone’s fault.
Testosterone also helps in the City.
After all, testosterone is supposed to be the hormone behind violence and aggression.
3510
Manchester United vs Aston Villa (Old Trafford) Team news .
Aston Villa have won just one of the last 38 Premier League games against Manchester United (L27 D10 W1).
3511
In 2008 Clinton tapped her to be her 'body woman' when she ran for president the first time.
When Clinton became secretary of state a year later, Abedin became her deputy chief of staff.
3512
'Tony Blair probably came to us because the strategic deposits in the mountain Noyon Uul are the centre of attention,' reported local news source 24 Tsag.mn .
3513
He warned that parents should change the passwords on the devices to make it more difficult for people to guess.
3514
It added that this is the first time Samsung has released its wearable SDK to  developers before the official product announcement, but didn't reveal release dates for either the software or the new device.
3515
Cristiano Ronaldo scored five goals as Real Madrid beat Granada 9-1 on Sunday to keep their title hopes alive .
3516
Little angel:
Kristina said that Disney World has helped her daughter feel more comfortable around other people and act less shy.
Disney girl:
3517
'Give a girl the right shoes and she can take on the world.'
Ms Bishop is known for her immaculate and polished appearance but does not have a stylist .
3518
UEFA's general secretary Gianni Infantino has warned that there will be no choice but to suspend Greece from international football unless the country's government rescinds proposed new laws.
3519
When he got knocked out, his feet were still in the road.
The incident was never reported to police, and now the Maryland Transportation Authority is investigating, and may file charges.
3520
He had intended to send the money home to his family, Cotton said.
He told Walmart about it at the time but they could not find it .
3521
Daniel Sturridge is bidding to return to his best form following a lengthy spell out through injury .
'It is the sharpness and fitness side of things.
3522
Police believe April may have been 'born where she was found', Sky reported today.
'She was found within the Merseyside area and is currently receiving medical treatment.
3523
Rodgers would not discuss whether he would give Gerrard, available after a three-match suspension, an immediate recall against Villa, making it clear that his sole priority is steering Liverpool into their first FA Cup final of his reign.
3524
Here, the bones of the two people can be seen on top of one another, leading some experts to suggest the set-up was designed to imitate sex .
3525
Researchers plan to drill 5,000 feet (1,500 meters) below the surface of the Chicxulub crater in Mexico to try and answer the question of how the dinosaurs died out.
3526
'What can I say..
During his visit, it seems no one was more excited, or starstruck, than Jamaican Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller.
3527
Passer-by Kuan Tseng, 32, said: 'It seemed that she had already parked the car so when he stood behind it there didn't seem to be any danger.
3528
But Sheehan claims she was forcefully slammed to the ground and left severely injured.
Sheehan was treated by nurses at the jail before she was taken to the hospital.
3529
women are turning to Broga, a rugged take on the 3,000-year-old .
Experts say it sets men free to flex .
Broga Yoga, which so far has trained some 200 Broga instructors .
3530
A final photograph shows all four men on their knees as the knife-wielding militants swarm upon them, before carrying out the brutal beheadings.
3531
As more people came, they began bringing  items to try and help get Shelby out, using grocery bags, car floor mats, tarp, garbage bags, a straw hat and even bare hands .
He thought the dog was dying.
3532
Treadwell won the race on Venetia Williams-trained 100-1 shot Mon Mome in 2009.
His wife, Zara Phillips, the Queen’s granddaughter, has helped with schooling a gelding who once had jumping issues.
3533
Bleak picture: Abu Ibrahim Raqqawi one of the group's founders, wrote the accompanying message: 'Lines waiting for some food.
Yes this is the #ISIS State.
3534
'We must be realistic and Messi is the best.
PSG play host to Barcelona on Wednesday night before facing the La Liga giants at the Nou Camp on April 21.
3535
Unhappy Red Bull owner Dietrich Mateschitz threatened to pull out of Formula One .
'The plan is to make sure the future engine we will be building has absolutely no reliability issues.'
3536
He and Wylie collect fossils as something they can 'do together outside,' Brys told KXAS.
And Brys told the Washington Post that Wylie is just like any other five-year-old.
3537
Dr Massey added: 'We are finally homing in on dark matter from above and below - squeezing our knowledge from two directions.'
3538
'We are yet to conduct our investigation to identify the cause of the problem, but we take any complaints about baby products extremely seriously, which is why we have taken the decision to recall the soothers as a precaution.'
3539
Then you find some way to relax and calm down,' says another little girl, explaining how she uses mindfulness techniques to combat feelings of anger.
3540
Adams had been due to contest the women's 51kg flyweight division including a prospective final showdown against her Great Britain rival Lisa Whiteside.
3541
The report follows a February study which revealed the country's bar sales had dropped by 60 per cent when the new limit was introduced.
3542
Prosecutors claim Mote was 'using European Parliament money to fund his defence and various appeals in connection with being prosecuted for benefit fraud'
3543
She also told the news outlet she did not believe race played a role.
'Add to that the information we were receiving from her supporters about firing us when she took office.
3544
Catalans Dragons winger Vincent Duport has been ruled out for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury .
'He is a key member in the team who has to support him.'
3545
Rafael Nadal eased past Spanish compatriot Nicolas Almagro 6-3 6-1 to reach the Barcelona Open third round on Wednesday as he began his bid for a ninth title on the clay in the Catalan capital.
3546
The Parole Board is reviewing the case of a murderer who was the first man to be convicted on the basis of DNA evidence.
3547
She claimed her remarks had been taken ‘out of context’.
He added Mr Bowles had been caught up in a ‘very bad situation’, which he declined to describe.
3548
Bonne was rescued from Puerto Rico and is a Sato, which means mixed breed or street dog.
Bonnie is so afraid to eat alone that she grabs her dish and paws her way over to Clyde .
3549
‘It wasn’t
‘He is not frightened of making decisions at crucial times.
You have to say Tottenham is a far better club now than when he found it.
3550
Evnika Saadvakass became a YouTube sensation when she was five-years-old when her video received around three million views .
3551
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce says he would have no problem with sneaking through the ‘back door’ into European football via the Fair Play League.
3552
Alex Chitdara, co-owner of rival company Shompoo Cruise said the accident happened on a very isolated stretch of the Mekong river.
3553
Speaking to adidas football, Benzema said: 'We are trying to get to the final.
Real Madrid forward Karim Benzema believes his side are capable of retaining the Champions League .
3554
The hospital's negligence led to her son James Robshaw, now 12, being born with cerebral palsy.
However it took a further six years to fight for damages for James.
3555
While Ramsey admits he is encouraged by the likes of Pulis, he firmly believes his own tactical acumen is the reason he was entrusted with keeping QPR in the top flight.
3556
The FA reportedly offered Ryan two tickets to watch the semi-final in the Arsenal end but he refused, preferring to watch Huddersfield take on Derby in the Championship.
3557
The criminal investigation remains open in Croatia, but the Lapthorne family does not have confidence in police there.
3558
The problem was posted on Facebook by ‘Hello Singapore’ television presenter Kenneth Kong, and went viral as people posted their various solutions to the problem.
3559
'This market is very popular with Middle East, Russian and Eastern European buyers, and it also attracts City brokers wanting a luxury London home.'
3560
Channel 4 News filmed Lord Jenner outside his house in London on July 8 2014, in what was is the most recent moving image of the Labour peer .
3561
'Islamic State Lists to restore the rights of Muslims who have been killed by your governments.'
Airport management has disabled the site.
3562
The Sacramento Bee reported Weber still has his driver's license -- and also pointed out that a since-deceased 105-year-old Colorado man holds the record for being the oldest pilot ever, according to Guinness.
3563
During that time, he had two public relapses, including one before the 2012 season.
He claimed that Hamilton's contract said the deal could be terminated if he relapsed.
3564
A bedlington lurcher named Twiglet suffered a 'serious hallucinogenic episode' after accidentally eating a stash of drugs he found at a village bus stop.
3565
Sharon said she lost 4st through joining a slimming club but then shed another four-and-a-half stone after taking up her sporty hobby.
Sharon says her weight was down to commuting to London for her job as a clothes designer but after quitting her job to go freelance and work from home, Sharon was able to exercise at lunch .
3566
Mario Balotelli responded to Robbie Savage's labelling of the Liverpool striker as 'pathetic' Balotelli was not included in the Liverpool squad to face Arsenal or Blackburn Rovers this week .
3567
Former teachers and testing coordinators would be given one year of home confinement and a $1,000 fine.
Prosecutors said the 12 were looking out for themselves rather than their students .
3568
The Argentine has said he will never forgive Newcastle for their handling of his illness after he was told to find a new club when he first returned from treatment in December, 2013.
3569
But Camilla's new-found confidence is hard-won.
Royal acceptance soon followed with the Queen making Camilla part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations in 2002.
3570
Her shoe collection has now become fully integrated with her own wardrobe.
It's not only just the heel height that's the selling point - different prints can boost the outfit.
3571
In the videos, the men do not appear to be acting strangely.
Hernandez lawyer James Sultan said he planned to call just three witnesses before resting later Monday.
3572
Anderson has attempted to divert the attention ahead of his big day, focusing on the team's efforts to come back from a dreadful winter of white ball cricket.
3573
Hughes' men have not won in their last four matches but picked up their first point in that sequence last time out with a 1-1 draw at West Ham, and he is adamant the campaign is not petering out.
3574
Arda Turna’s sending-off at Real Madrid on Wednesday may have looked harsh but he simply paid the price for so much of what had gone before.
3575
The saying 'two is company but three's a crowd' clearly didn't apply to James Corden as he met two Beckham sporting stars.
'I said, "Okay, great."
3576
Last year Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella (pictured) was forced to apologize for saying that women don't need to ask for a raise and should just trust the system to pay them well .
3577
The Beijing No. 3 Intermediate People's Court.
Her political writings saw her jailed for six years in the 1990s, also on a charge of 'leaking state secrets'.
3578
The West family also have started another campaign on Booster.com selling cotton T-shirts with Austin’s picture for $15 each to raise additional funds.
3579
Dominique Granier sparked outrage after he suggested putting on a service specifically for people travelling from a Roma encampment next to a cemetery into the centre of Montpellier, in the south of France.
3580
New plan:
Labour’s Ed Miliband yesterday pledged that he would help low earners by raising the level above £8 an hour by October 2019.
3581
They found the human tools (pictured) were no more effective than Neanderthal-created tools of the same era .
3582
Since the beginning of the month, Doody has been posting self-help and life-affirming messages to her Facebook page such as 'Until you've lived my life, walked my path, suffered my pain and seen what I've seen, I could care less about your judgements.'
3583
As scientists expand their search, they’ll be able to better test current cosmological theories by comparing the amounts of dark and visible matter.
3584
Marie was quoted as saying the difference was found to be similar to those observed in the US when students reach legal drinking age.
3585
'Under parliamentary rules allegations of treating is bribing people with food and drink.
Mr Rose is standing in the seat for the fourth time.
3586
Damon Albarn said modern pop stars are part of a 'selfie generation' that just sings about platitudes .
'What are any of them saying?' added Albarn, now a father-of-one.
3587
Suspect:
Judge Mr Justice Saunders said the case should be dealt with as soon as possible because of the defendant's age.
3588
Then they could have avoided an additional 10-minute delay when they were slow in coming back out after an afternoon shower because they said the outfield was still wet.
3589
She remains in custody.
A 15-year-old was also booked for aggravated battery and illegal possession of a handgun among other charges.
3590
Miss Carvalho, pictured in other poses from the same shoot, had hymen surgery last year to 'restore' her virginity so she could enjoy her first time all over again with ‘someone special'
3591
You have got to get the season​ing​, because the seasoning is off the chain, I must let you know.'
​Bobby's appearance marks his first time away from Bobbi in months.
3592
They are appealing for her sentence to be reduced .
It would be very easy for Ms Vulin to be filled with hate about what happened to her but she insists ‘all I ever do is take positives’ from the situation.
3593
Periscope allows people to live-stream video from their phones to their Twitter followers with the click of a button.
Amanda broadcasting live from an LA bar.
3594
An inquiry has been ordered into this.’
Reports suggest that the captain was assaulted after asking the co-pilot to record information before take-off .
3595
Flame-haired actress Jessica Chastain is another red dipping her toe into blonde waters, as she will transform her red hair to play perhaps the most iconic blonde of all time, 1950s bombshell, Marilyn Monroe.
3596
He is accused of killing his former boss .
Even though he was advised of his right to remain silent, he reportedly admitted to the killing .
3597
She said that Steve McQueen would not win as the Academy did not want such a dark message about the US to be ‘sent around the world’.
She added the plantation owners are as 'terrible as the Nazis'
3598
The forward is not wanted at United, but has attracted interest from a number of clubs home and abroad .
11 April, 2015: One in 3-0 league victory over Eibar .
3599
After friends and medical experts cast doubt on her medical claims, Ms Gibson told The Australian she may have been 'misdiagnosed'.
3600
However the relationship began to sour when Robinson started hearing about the abusive conduct of the inmate elsewhere in the prison.
3601
Recent years have seen her cut down on the amount of time she spends in the saddle - the result of a niggling knee injury that also forced her to give up presiding over Trooping the Colour on horseback.
3602
'The assumption is that they will never be dishonest but they will respect your willingness to participate and not look to include things you think would embarrass your family.'
3603
CSKA visit Ludogorets on Saturday with several local businessmen announcing that the CSKA players would receive tempting bonuses if they beat the Razgrad-based side, who have won the title for the last three seasons.
3604
The footage shows two deputies catch up with Pusok on foot after he falls off the horse, and they stun him with a Taser.
Chase:
Apprehended:
3605
Jenner, who won gold in the decathlon at the 1976 Olympics, also made headlines earlier this year for his involvement in a deadly car crash in Malibu.
3606
The two continents are linked at Panama, but there has been a debate about when this land bridge first appeared, with most experts placing its formation at about 3 million years ago.
3607
McDonnell argues that in addition to mischaracterizing such events as 'official acts,' the government incorrectly suggested that McDonnell kept his staff in the dark about most of Williams' gifts.
3608
They hope the publicity will encourage a circus or zoo to take him in.
The bear, nicknamed Mishutka, will soon become a massive beast that will pose a danger to the family .
3609
To cut the cost, Cheng used plastic instead of metal which he bought for just 5 Yuan (60p) per square metre.
But he says the electromagnet in Iron Man's chest is still a work in progress.
3610
He stands by the original ruling saying there was no evidence of arson.
'I think it's important to satisfy people's minds that the other fires are unconnected.'
3611
According to Britain's Sunday Times, Bloomberg, 73, is 'considering' the move, and has the backing of senior officials in Britain's Conservative Party.
3612
Doctors explained the birthmark had sparked the problems because of a rare condition called a subglottic hemangioma.
Now four months old, Jasmine is thriving.
3613
'We can imagine a situation where the FBI does not want the Congressional investigation to lead back to Laude Matthews.
Wexler said: 'Now the database is three times larger and covers 50 states.
3614
Royal Navy sailors Joshua Finbow, 23, (left) and Simon Radford, 31, (right) appeared in court .
They must not leave the province of Nova Scotia and cannot apply for new passports.
3615
'Sixty days out of the hospital is not an option for her anymore.
UPMC said they are want to help Katie but said it is up to Kentucky Medicaid to address the situation .
3616
Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy is planning a new transfer policy for the club that centres on resale value .
The moment they started to sell again, Tottenham fell away.
3617
'The Fifa rules are very clear, they don't accept technology...
Arsenal's Valencia was allowed to return to the field while Velez striker Mariano Pavone was shown a yellow .
3618
'I'm very active every day.
I'm doing physio already and working on balance and reflexes.
'It was my first time out of the bed (on Tuesday).
3619
In a separate development, it has emerged that European regulators warned Germany's aviation authority of inadequacies with its health check-ups in a regular review of air safety enforcement, the European Commission said.
3620
- He was rattled, along with the rest of the team, in the first half but he played his part in keeping Madrid at bay.
He will be vital in the second leg.
3621
Dear Michelle Obama:
Peter .
I have enjoyed learning about the great choices the USA has made… And then there was your husband’s election.
3622
A restaurant in Chicago has been voted the best restaurant in the world for a fourth year running.
6.
Bras, Laguoile, France .
Dal Pescatore, Mantua, Italy .
3623
The ultra-rare condition has caused her weight-bearing shin bone to die from lack of oxygen.
'Hannah's a girl of few words but one of the most aggressive centre-backs you'll ever see.'
3624
He is now being treated in Ping Mei Group Hospital and is expected to need several operations to repair the damage.
He said: 'It was the battery that exploded.
3625
'Hero':
Kingston
People in Britain have been enjoying the hot weather so far this week including at Tower Bridge in London today (pictured)
3626
Manoj Tiwary, who has played nine one day internationals for India,wrote: 'I'm shocked 2 hear d news of Under-19 player from bengal named Ankit kesri's demise due to heart attack.
3627
Avril was between the Asian and South American world tour when she first developed symptoms .
However she said doctors were skeptical and didn't want to test her.
3628
Kay then asked Peter how he would feel is Alex Reid wanted to adopt his two children Junior and Princess at which point the singer became upset asking for the interview to be terminated.
3629
'I think that there's no doubt that obviously the Masters is in the back of our minds, but I'm here to play well, to get in some good rhythm, to have a chance at winning this week and then as soon as Sunday finishes then I'll concentrate on the Masters.
3630
Eighty guests fled the fire at the 119-bedroom hotel, which featured in TV’s Inspector Morse.
Cast and crew also stayed there while filming the detective drama.
3631
She added that they are describing them as 'anthology films' that expand the Star Wars universe without necessarily using the main characters.
3632
Swansea City striker Bafetimbi Gomis has been recovering from his hamstring injury in France .
3633
According to police, the male pilot was killed, and three passengers severely injured, but the cause of the crash remains unknown .
3634
During his murder trial in Douglas County, Jenkins was assessed by a doctor who concluded that he was 'a psychopath' and 'one of the most dangerous people' he had ever encountered.
3635
Shane Jeffers of Saint Kitts is bowled by England's Ben Stokes on day one of the second warm-up match .
3636
One woman felt insecure about her teeth, noting that she thought they made her look like a mouse .
Visibly shocked by the comments, the women recognise the dialogue as their own notes.
3637
The new arrests, and the arrest in March, are understood to be linked to these lines of inquiry.
Police conduct searches in  York, at the home of Miss Lawrence.
3638
Any report of genes influencing behaviour tends to polarise opinion.
What is clear is that finding genetic influences on behaviour does not affect legal responsibility.
3639
Trusting her intuition, she rushed home to find the father-of-five stuck underneath the car.
'I just said, 'I need to go check on him working on the car,' Mrs Mayhew told My Fox Philly.
3640
The players returned to the 18th for the play-off and Aphibarnrat completed victory in style, hitting his approach to virtually the same place as he had in regulation and this time holing the birdie putt after Li had missed from long range.
3641
The monkey stops to take a break, wipes its face and then has another drink before running off with the bottle .
3642
Frances accessorised her look with a Help For Heroes wristband .
Frances was spotted in a black bikini as she drove a jet ski and caught some rays in the sun .
3643
Pique says Barcelona's impressive front three have a relationship like nothing he has seen before .
There's no hint of jealousy and that shows on the pitch.'
3644
'The security guard involved wasn't even involved in the initial ejection.
The security guard suffered a minor slash wound but did not require any medical treatment.
3645
He thinks he’s a psychic...
The couple doesn't yet know the sex of their baby; if it's a girl, Nicolas will surrender all naming rights to Kseniya .
3646
More than 25 women have been airlifted from Royal Navy ships because of pregnancy.
Nearly 100 female British soldiers were sent home from Afghanistan after finding out they were pregnant.
3647
It is understood he wandered off and has not been seen since .
Sergeant Greg Paul says the search is focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
3648
It is in this stage of the trial that the jury will decide whether or not to sentence Tsarnaev to life in prison or the death penalty - a matter in which they will have to vote unanimously.
3649
Eduardo told the paper he had known the Tarseys for 40 years, adding: 'They were very good people, humble, friendly and not ostentatious.
3650
Murray has previously played best man at Jamie's wedding when he married Alejandra Gutierrez at Cromlix House in 2010, and when Ross Hutchins tied the knot with Lindsay Wood last year.
3651
England football stars pitted themselves against their rugby counterparts in a St George's Day challenge .
3652
Pearson has applied the same principles throughout the season, except now Leicester are taking more chances.
His goal to set up the win over West Ham was special too.
3653
After signatures hit the 127,000 mark this morning, a spokeswoman said: 'Our position hasn't changed since the petition was at 75,000.'
3654
John Knott shot his terminally ill wife Anne dead before turning the shotgun on himself after the couple apparently made a pact to die together .
3655
The sheriff apologized in December 2011 for the bungled cases, and his office has since said it has moved to clear up the investigation and taken steps to prevent the problem from happening again.
3656
Manziel would later claim this report was false, and that he had never seen a counselor for anger management or for alcohol abuse while in college.
3657
The video ends with him using a small knife to cut a slice of the cake before he serves it on a plate with a side of more coloured balls.
3658
Special offer: Myer City stores in Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane, and Adelaide will offer the first 100 customers the doll for the original 1959 price of $3.00 .
3659
Last night supporters of the Duke and Duchess were camped outside the private Lindo Wing of St Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, London, where the Duchess is expected to give birth imminently.
3660
However, legal sources have told Sportsmail that the SFA’s prosecutor is entitled to cite players even in such instances when officials have seen an ‘incident’ but have failed to spot an ‘offence’.
3661
Going into Sunday’s clash at Arsenal, he has scored 18 and assisted 10 goals in only 43 starts.
Wenger believes the gong will be a shootout between Hazard and Arsenal’s Alexis Sanchez.
3662
Victims:
Outdoors:
Father:
Tragic:
Gary Terry, 36, died and his driver was hospitalized after their Lamborghini crashed at Disney world .
Lol.'
3663
One of the so-called liberal environmental groups that Fiorina blamed on Monday for the state's water woes later told the Huffington Post that the Republican politician's argument was 'irrational.'
3664
Mr Gennari added the attacks were 'frighteningly extreme' and said there was a high chance Levato would offend again if released.
3665
Now Rooney has revealed his admiration for the former Everton forward, saying: 'He is getting used in the right way.
'He is a quality player.
3666
He warns that as well as securing growth, he wants to rebalance the economy to ensure that ‘success is felt from North, to South, to East, to West’.
3667
Patties Foods said no hepatitis A virus or E.coli were detected in any sample of its recalled and non-recalled Nanna's Mixed Berries 1kg product during its own testing.
3668
President Obama arrives having amassed some goodwill in Latin America by upending the US policy of isolating Cuba, a policy that had irritated others in the region, and by loosening immigration policies at home.
3669
The driver of the second vehicle was also taken to hospital where he is being treated.
A police investigation into the accident has been launched.
3670
Viewers watching at home couldn't contain their horror at what Tom's answer appeared to imply and soon #jeopardy was trending on Twitter with people voicing their opinons .
3671
He was under house arrest and electronic monitoring at the time of the fire .
 William Schmidt was a retired AT&T lineman, while his wife taught deaf people sign language, the publication reported.
3672
‘any scandal that contains the word Islam in its title sells.
’ ‘A terrorist is scary, but if you add that he's an Islamist, everyone wets themselves.’
3673
‘I never steal.’
They’ll watch to see which pocket you put it back in — and pounce.
And the pickpocket is watching to see where the item is kept.’
3674
Polish officials have published the images of the man in the hope somebody might identify him and asked experts to try and work out where the man's accent is from.
3675
His case has cost British taxpayers a six-figure sum, according to legal experts.
Magistrates agreed to his extradition in October of that year and he was held in Belmarsh prior to being sent home.
3676
She said colouring books were no longer viewed as ‘childish’ and instead allowed everyone to express their creative side.
But I think it was seen as childish.
3677
Chris Banks, Manager for Zoo Victoria's International Conservation Programs, explained to ABC why the crocodiles are facing extinction.
3678
After watching the game, Redknapp claims he was attacked with coins by some Arsenal supporters .
'Most punters are fantastic and it’s a lovely game I’ve been brought up with.'
3679
It's a dream come true for me.
Spieth hugs his father Shawn at the 18th green and he admitted that seeing his family made things sink in .
3680
Roland Gainer (above), a college student, started a GoFundMe page for Broskey after meeting him which has almost reached its $95,000 goal .
3681
This stone statue of Princess Diana was created in India in 2004 but is hardly a chip off the old block .
3682
Reverend Williams was also yet another person who sang the praises of the young teacher whose heart-breaking tale has gripped Australia in recent weeks.
3683
Smaller growers are blaming the big companies moving into the market, saying they are growing almonds in areas that are too dry for the trees.
3684
Source: Battery University .
The copper material inside Cell 1 melted, indicating internal temperatures of at least 1,085°C (1,985°F).
3685
they show landmarks almost devoid of visitors.
Some of the Beijing-area attractions featured in these 100-year-old photos are now Unesco World Heritage Sites .
3686
The final decision will be made by senior officials.
However, a Comcast spokeswoman told CNN that the merger would result in 'significant consumer benefits.'
3687
The latest police information came as Governor Jay Nixon on Tuesday announced plans to appoint fellow Democrat and county treasurer Nicole Galloway as Schweich's replacement.
3688
Police said Glushko then walked to George Horner Ice Park, where he stole a forklift and drove off with it.
He remained in jail Tuesday.
3689
Another count of robbery relating to the car-jacking was left to lie on file, Norfolk Police said.
Hennells, 31, was then found by police in a nearby pub, with £410 in cash on his person .
3690
He said: 'We will say that anyone doing engineering at degree level should not be paying any tuition fees.'
3691
The study involved men and women who had been diagnosed with Stage B heart failure.
The 186 patients were assessed for their levels of gratitude using standard psychological tests.
3692
Michael Lurie and his family were at the Cheetah exhibit when they heard the child scream.
The exhibit was closed following the child's fall.
3693
The Danish government bought in tougher legislation amid fears their relaxed legal stance on bestiality was making the country a destination for people who wanted to have sex with animals .
3694
But 11 days later, Yee - who was actually beaten by Evans in last year's final - claimed a shock win to become the first new world ladies' champion for a decade.
3695
Just to be among the players, it’s kept me going.'
Pienaar has made just 11 appearances for the Toffees this season due to groin and knee injuries .
3696
Pingan enjoys a piece of cake as he celebrates his first birthday one year on from the horror crash .
'He truly is a miracle baby.'
3697
In a chilling twist the victim was left bleeding to death in a gutter because the a medical centre just 300 feet away was closed for the day because the doctor who worked there was also a foreigner and feared becoming a victim of a xenophobic attack himself .
3698
The Lark Ascending has been voted the nation's favourite piece of classical music.
5. Beethoven - Piano Concerto No. 5 ('Emperor')
6. Allegri - Miserere .
3699
Where he got the polonium from, that is the question.'
Litvinenko died of radiation poisoning in November 2006 after meeting Kovtun and Alexander Lugovoi .
3700
Betty Willis, credited with designing the 'Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas' sign, died in her Overton, Nevada, home on Sunday, according to an obituary on the Virgin Valley & Moapa Valley Mortuaries' website.
3701
Terrifying bodycam footage shows Kidder aiming at Michael Wilcox, 27, following a police chase.
He has since been arrested and is being held on a $2m bond (mugshot left)
3702
Toure says Sterling could be making a similar mistake by leaving Anfield.
'This is definitely the best place for him to continue his development.
3703
The current owner acquired it in 2001.
He said that various pieces of debris taken from the ocean including this Titanic deckchair he acquired.
3704
Recent research is suggesting that Neanderthals were sophisticated and not very different from modern humans, increasing the mystery behind why they died out and Homo sapiens managed to survive .
3705
Jellis Craig agent Andrew McCann is telling potential buyers to expect Darren and Deanne’s chic apartment to sell for around $1.5 on auction day, reported Domain.
Tim and Anastasia's sophisticated apartment has been valued at around $1.3 million .
Three contracts were issued after Mr Cambridge showed the property to over 30 groups.
3706
‘I’d prepared well for this, but it shows my game is not good enough yet,’ he admitted.
But although he three-putted only once, he carded a 76 to end day two at six over par.
3707
'With the recent release of the 'Jump Street' movies, I think they're a little more apprehensive, but it's more of a joking matter – ''you're not '21 Jump Street' are you?''
3708
The victim was given stitches at Bradford Royal infirmary.
But he added that it was a serious offence which could only be dealt with by an immediate custodial sentence.
3709
The 21-year-old skims a ball across a lake at Augusta during a relaxed practice round .
Bubba Watson hugs Spieth after tapping in to win his second green jacket at Augusta last year .
3710
Geomagnetic storms are more disruptive now than in the past because of our greater dependence on technical systems that can be affected by electric currents.
3711
Poundland has become Europe's largest single-price discount retailer, with a trial expansion into Spain currently underway .
3712
The Prime Minister claims it is wrong that millions of people doing normal jobs like teaching are now paying a tax rate that was 'only ever meant for the better off'.
3713
But he looked so ill and his skin appeared plastic and his head was misshapen,’ she said.
After his birth, doctors feared Billy would not last the night.
3714
Imagine how Rangers fans felt when the authorities banished their club to the brink of non-league football.
Somehow a fairer distribution of wealth is needed in Scotland.
3715
The Lib Dem leader, who hopes to hold the balance of power after May 7, said the idea of more than two parties forming a government is not 'going to work'.
3716
Charlie Lankston (lost 20lbs/9kg)
The makers say that it uses algorithms which show the effects of weight loss more effectively than other apps .
3717
Prince Harry will tonight fly out of the UK to Australia without seeing his new niece or nephew .
The new arrival will also bump Prince Andrew out of the 'top five' for the first time.
3718
In the weeks before her death, Kelly-Anne endured unimaginable torture while her family - terrified of pushing her even further into Smith’s clutches - waited by the phone.
3719
Charlie Elphicke, the Tory candidate in Dover, said: ‘Ukip’s immigration policy doesn’t just change by the day, it changes by the minute in the space of one interview.
3720
He is refusing to move into the property and fears he could lose £100,000 if it is put on the market .
Cheshire East Council say the development is needed to house travellers in the area .
3721
Other understaffed ambulance services in the UK are also going abroad, including to Poland.
Miss Tranter said: ‘We are big travellers so it will be a good adventure together.
3722
Tevez is under contract until the end of next season but according to reports in Italy he has told the club's hierarchy he wants to leave this summer.
3723
In 2010 he became AS's correspondent in Argentina was the journalist closest to Lionel Messi and the many of his team-mates.
3724
After testing, assistant who opened the envelope was not advised to seek medical attention and was simply told to wash her hands.
3725
As long as there's breath, there's still hope,' Mr Sinnamon said .
People also held paintings and banners outside of the Indonesian consulate in Maroubra, Sydney on Monday .
3726
A video of the performance has since gone viral online.
Soha Ebrahim, a sports host on Egyptian state television, described the clip as a 'scandal and a farce' in a comment on Facebook.
3727
Falcao has struggled to reach the heights he achieved before suffering a serious knee injury .
'In Monaco, he was not feeling well.'
3728
Typing in a password will become a thing of the past too, he added.
But he cautioned that the company has no immediate plans to use such devices.
3729
Hellas Verona's midfielder Mounir Obbadi reacts after scoring the winning goal against Fiorentina .
'We were not good enough to bring the three points.'
3730
Despite not wanting to be seen as a 'mummy' replacement, Christine has said that she has a very hands-on role when it comes to looking after Frank's two children, given that he can be away a lot for football games .
3731
The jury heard there were battery-operated smoke alarms in the flat, but the windows did not open wide enough for anyone to climb out – and the only other means of escape was through the front door.
3732
We remember and commemorate our ANZACs,' Mr Ebeid wrote on Twitter.
Twitter users labelled McIntyre's comments an 'Un-australian anti Anzac disgrace!'
3733
'Our observations are suggestive of what may have happened on the early Earth when the first DNA-like molecular fragments appeared,' said CU-Boulder physics Professor Noel Clark, a study co-author.
3734
'But that was the same before we played the Manchester United game; Arsenal was a game that we wanted to ensure that we got at least a point from and that will be the case at the weekend.'
3735
It is very annoying.’
‘There are a few opportunities [to pass Hamilton],’ Rosberg, who was speaking to Sky Sports, said.
3736
Celtic are eight points ahead of second place Abderdeen and could win the title when they face their nearest challengers on May 11 .
3737
Photographer Menno Scheefer travelled 68km to the northern Netherlands town of Noordeinde to photograph the own, after hearing about its strange behaviour .
3738
Guardiola won't remember all the season's goals.
Half-time found the Portuguese on their knees and they crawled to the dressing room.
3739
'On the positive side, a visitor and orientation centre is a good idea which will help organise and disperse the crowds'.
3740
Last year forward player Zach Randolph left the bench during the fourth quarter of a game to spend a minute with the boy, who was trying to get his attention from the audience, according to the Bleacher Report.
3741
After the video surfaced in October, the soldiers face charges of discrediting the Guard, dereliction of duty, conduct unbecoming an officer, and the sale, waste or destruction of military property.
3742
Vian told Luxottica shareholders that his company is 'now working on Google Glass version 2 which is in preparation'.
3743
When they ran from the block of flats, the killer told a friend he had 'just ripped the man's jacket'.
He fatally stabbed Mr Barry twice .
3744
When Mr Eren survived the attack, the target shifted to his cousin Zafer Eren, another leading member of the Tottenham Turks.
3745
The liquid has been used to create lightweight flexible sheets, which can be placed inside the body armour .
A Bullet test shows the material hardening on impact.
3746
Bilardi's suicide mission reportedly failed to hit its intended target with General Tahssin Ibrahim confirming that no one had been killed and just a few vehicles had been damaged by the attack.
3747
But the couple have faced a great deal of heartache over the years, and are only now living comfortably with 12 of the children with the help of donations by kind-hearted people, according to the People's Daily Online.
3748
He claims in 1998 he shaved his head, trimmed his 'long Indian eyelashes' and joined the Organization of Black Students during the process.
3749
Louis van Gaal says Manchester United can still win the Barclays Premier League at this late stage in the race .
He is still not in my group.'
3750
United will be a serious challenger.
The captain Wayne Rooney, playing in a deep-lying midfield position just in front of Herrera because of the injuries to key players, spoke of 'dominating the football match'.
3751
Next, Votel said, officials will analyze requirements for the jobs to make sure standards are accurate and gender neutral.
3752
The supervoid is thought to be causing a 'less-dense' region of the universe (illustration of empty space shown).
At 1.8 billion light-years across it would be the biggest object ever found.
3753
As a childhood friend of pop star Ed Sheeran it would be understandable if Jonny May felt like singing the blues with the memory of being dropped by England still painfully fresh in his mind.
3754
Lineham scored a treble in a losing cause at Castleford last month but his efforts on Friday night settled a drab contest at the KC Stadium.
3755
The sweeping marble staircase is lifted from the original Waldorf-Astoria hotel, which Conrad Hilton labeled 'the greatest of them all'
Trial:
3756
The Oxford University president boasts the most enviable CV in the River Thames battle, with three Boat Race victories under his belt and a bronze medal from London 2012.
3757
Today, people visit the shrine to pray for everything from fertility and business prosperity to wedded bliss and good health .
3758
Jurors also determined that Chrysler failed to warn the family of the hazards of driving the Jeep.
In that case, four children in the back seat were severely injured.
3759
Richard Entright who presided over the NYPD from 1918 to 1925 has become infamous for his decision not to root out Klu Klux Klan members in his own force.
3760
Getting to his feet, Jordan then presents Kayleigh with her ring and seals the deal with a kiss and a cuddle.
Claire Harris wrote: ‘Congratulations!
3761
The final day of Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week kicked off in very colourful style with the Romance Was Born show .
Spectacular:
Loud and proud:
3762
British and Norwegian vets have called the directives 'scientifically illiterate', saying that the use of homeopathy could lead to 'serious animal health and welfare detriment.'
3763
For all the star power on show though, all eyes were on Letizia who looked relaxed and happy as she chatted to Ms Hayek.
Speaking out:
Mwah!
3764
But in cases where the cancer is more aggressive, even after treatment there is a high risk of recurrence.
Around 11,000 men in the UK die from the disease a year.
3765
Some spent the winter shoring up his cages with taller fences and netting, hoping the animals will return.
'I didn't have cats and dogs,' she said.
3766
Billionaire John Caudwell inside his historic mansion.
Broughton Hall in Staffordshire was the scene of a Civil War tragedy according to Mr Caudwell .
3767
Tonya Stack, whose husband Mike Stack holds the state's second-highest office
He claims that after her shot landed, she was bundled out by a State Trooper who was guarding her.
3768
Brandy was one of the 43 people crushed by the force of the natural disaster.
He lost everything in the mudflow.
Tim said he heard Brandy call for him before she was killed .
3769
In comments that caused anger among military families, the sources suggested that ‘once they had failed to meet the pre-election deadline, they gave up trying to speed things up’.
3770
He played in the match against Ecuador in the 2006 World Cup, in which England were saved by a David Beckham free-kick, and was then dropped and replaced by the more energetic Owen Hargreaves for the quarter-final with Portugal.
3771
A second person has been charged over a doorstep acid attack on a property developer that left him scarred for life and suffering a loss of vision.
3772
The Stoke manager played with former England striker Gary Lineker under Terry Venables for one season at Barcelona in 1988.
3773
Marinna finds the physical vibrations have an effect on the body, while the sound from the forks is simultaneously soothing .
Experts recommend 12 sessions.
3774
Ware was speeding when she lost control and her SUV rolled over in Paupack Township back in August .
It rolled over several times during the deadly accident.
3775
A host of the nation’s favourite stars have been announced to perform at a concert to mark the 70th anniversary of VE Day.
3776
'An assistant told me he had committed criminal damage because he opened the boxes and said I was lucky the police weren't being called.
3777
Richardson was caught and arrested on March 19 after CCTV operators were alerted to her suspicious behaviour as they spotted her approaching people for cash.
3778
But McCall revealed the club's new board are now starting the process of re-establishing their spying network - albeit on a smaller level than before.
3779
The dish loved by millions of British customers is to get a meat-free makeover that it is claimed will cut carbon emissions by half.
3780
'I might glance at it for a moment until I realize, that's Fox News, and then I shut it off.'
It was more, "Yup, it's working.
'These things are cyclical.
3781
Tariq's social media presence rarely last longer than a few days before being suspended as he specialises in posting detailed instructions on how to build bombs.
3782
Dr Jonathan Schoenecker and his team aimed to investigate if cuddly toys contribute to surgical-site infections.
3783
Former Chelsea striker Hughes said: 'It's not easy.
Marc Muniesa is set to return to the squad after missing five games because of a hamstring problem .
3784
It came just 12 months after he was banned for 10 matches and fined £2,000 for biting Chesterfield's Ollie Banks while playing for Torquay.
3785
Another was accused of making as many as 15 people stand for days on end in a tiny cell, a punishment which left people dead - but she will never be brought before the court to answer to the law .
3786
Savers will be able to earn hundreds of pounds in interest before paying tax.
He also announced a massive extension in the Right to Buy scheme to 1.3million housing association tenants.
3787
'He is okay, but in pain,' said his Bora-Argon18 team director.
The large group of riders that fell slowly make their way back to their feet after the huge crash .
3788
The Saints are the only English team to win an away quarter-final against French opposition — beating Biarritz 7-6 in 2007.
3789
The main castle was also unaffected by the fire.
'The castle will be fully open today featuring our spectacular Easter events programme.'
3790
One veteran claims he was on hold for 36 minutes.
However, following national attention, Ted claims he was phoned by the VA who wanted to speak to him.
3791
Exeter has been dubbed 'too posh for Monopoly' after game makers were told there is nowhere low-rent enough to fill the space of Old Kent Road .
3792
The build-up for the blockbuster fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao in Las Vegas on May 2 steps up a gear on Tuesday night when the American holds an open workout for the media.
3793
More than 10,000 Australians and New Zealanders are sitting in reverence on the shores of the Gallipoli peninsula .
Here, they lie in sacred soil.
3794
'I certainly didn't turn up here expecting for them to roll over and this to be an easy series.
West Indian batsman Devon Smith admitted his side were inspired by Colin Graves' comments .
3795
Bale was sidelined for Real's 3-1 win over Barcelona, in which Cristiano Ronaldo scored a penalty .
Karim Benzema scored in a 3-0 win against Liverpool at Anfield in October...
3796
The company says their Bell 525 will be configured to 'perform head of state transport throughout the region' while another purchaser K Aircraft Leasing, will rent their two 525s out to Middle East-based oil and gas companies.
3797
And the technology is both greener and safer than current batteries, as well as being flexible.
Besides safety, we have achieved major breakthroughs in aluminium battery performance.'
3798
He bowed his head while church leaders 'put their hands forward towards Ed' as they prayed for him in Croydon.
I'm Jewish by birth origin and it's a part of who I am.
3799
Real Madrid (2008-09): 3 apps, 0 goals .
Following in the footsteps of Alvaro Negredo and Roberto Soldado he left the club in 2009 signing for Valladolid from where he spent a season at Derby before ending up back in Spain.
3800
Amanda was a fitness lover and a month before her death had run a full marathon with her brother, who said they crossed the finish line hand-in-hand.
3801
Admiral Mike Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, allegedly told three comrades of Bergdahl that the soldier was a deserter .
He left us behind.
3802
He’s a really experienced manager, one that I respect and I’ll take his comments on board about how he scores against us.
Does he have a point?
3803
'If he keeps going on like this, that one big payday fight for him will never happen because at the end of the day, he's just trying to win fans over by mentioning my name when he knows that I can't fight then because of Ramadan.
3804
He is said to have watched the victims at the Jury’s Inn in Milton Keynes and The Mandolay Hotel, Guildford, Surrey, between January and October last year.
3805
In truth, he was lucky it was not a straight red and, as club captain, he will doubtless face a few harsh words from his manager on Tuesday morning.
3806
Cleopatra believed that smelling divine was the real key to a man's heart,' she says.
Floral perfumes can take years off a woman, as long as the smell is subtle.
3807
It's not what we're cut out to do.
Sherwood and Ramsey forged their friendship at Tottenham and remain close ahead of their showdown .
3808
Werder Bremen edged past bottom club Hamburg SV 1-0 courtesy of an 84th-minute penalty by Franco Di Santo that kept them in the running for a Europa League spot.
3809
The corporation investigated the ousted Top Gear presenter after he attacked one of the show's producers, splitting his lip and abusing him in a 30-second verbal assault on March 4.
3810
The app, which is available on all mobile platforms, has already been downloaded 20,000 times and is getting rave reviews .
3811
Owners Margaret and Patrick Evans say Baylie is 'a different dog' since losing a stone and a half on a new doggy diet of raw food.
Shake it off:
3812
An autopsy has been completed on a missing Florida woman who was found dead in her sunken car in a Tampa-area lake, showing she was intoxicated  when she drove into the water and ultimately drowned.
Foster was an aspiring singer.
She was reported missing after failing to show up for work and leaving her cats home alone .
Her hair was in a double bun.
3813
And the debate barely involves Iran.
Young activists have had a massive influence on the Islamic Republic of Iran's political agenda since 1997 .
3814
They also donated $5,000 to Sidwell Friends School, the exclusive private school where daughters Malia and Sasha are enrolled.
3815
In their report ABC News said that there was 'no evidence' Gray sustained a fatal spine injury during his arrest, which was caught on camera on a street side on April 12.
3816
‘I haven’t spoken to Patrick Vieira or anyone at City but I hope they are happy with my progress.
‘Some of the strikers I come up against in Scotland are big and strong.
3817
One in ten people aged 16 to 34 signed up to other platforms so they could remain ‘under the radar of their parents’.
3818
Charlie told the club's official site: 'I never expected a letter from the manager but I was absolutely delighted to get one.
3819
'I believe he will be a great addition to our backline and we look forward to welcoming him to Munster.'
3820
Among the most valuable items purchased during the auction were a hand-colored etching by naturalist John James Audubon American White Pelican, which fetched an impressive $173,000, three times more than was expected, Bonhams said in a statement.
3821
The photographer said that women would come in to the bar early in the morning to get shots of cognac before going out to work the streets .
3822
Its owner was individually fined £2,750, as well as costs of £1,392 and a £120 victim surcharge .
The company was fined £8,500, plus costs of £1,392 and a victim surcharge of £120.
3823
Jackett has steered his team from the blind side with remarkable efficiency.
Wolves thought they had scored in the first half when Kevin Wilson’s slip let in Afobe.
3824
The police were notified of the video after it was leaked online.
Horrifying:
'It was the right thing to do,' Dindral told the Daily News.
3825
The collection lauches in store and online today .
Jacqueline Gold, CEO of Ann Summers says that Jess is the perfect woman to represent the lingerie brand.
3826
Iconic UK brand Topshop and Topman is set to open second Sydney store in Westfield Miranda .
Topshop's flagship store is in Sydney's CBD on the corner of George and Market Street .
3827
Sharpton's involvement comes after dashcam footage from Slager's patrol car was released, showing the traffic stop moments before the shooting.
3828
But Simon Cockerell, general manager of Koryo Tours, the tour firm that Mr Kobold travelled with, told MailOnline that events such as the marathon were good for increasing interaction with the culturally-isolated country.
3829
'Everyone is doing well.'
The couple announced they were having another child in December last year in an interview with The Advertiser.
3830
I'm just trying to work out what will be the best option for me,' he said.
'Wigan would be nice but I know it's not the only team I can go to.'
3831
Bedene's case with the ITF is based on the fact that his citizenship was already pending when the governing body amended its own rules on the subject earlier this year.
3832
The stricken boat initially set off from Egypt and then stopped off on the Libyan coast near the city Zuwarah to pick up more passengers, it has been reported.
3833
Once Grant, from Biddeford, had been subdued and placed in the police car, officers found white residue on her teeth.
She also attempted to kick out the car window, Sheriff King said.
3834
'I was that big it made me feel like I shouldn't be out.
He plucked up the courage to make a change after having problems walking around .
3835
Despite being stopped already, Luger said, the three others continued to try to get to Syria to join IS 'by any means possible.'
3836
Hibs continued to press and Neil Alexander was forced into the first save of the game to push away a curling Cummings effort at the edge of the area after the forward did well to create a yard of space up against Danny Wilson.
3837
The photo of Timothy Eli Thompson that was removed when a pro-life group posted an ad about the infant's story have since been reinstated.
3838
A species of whale that was feared to be extinct has been found washed up on a West Australian beach, giving scientists an opportunity to learn more about the mammal.
3839
Unlike Motorola's Gold version, which is stainless steel coated in a gold colour, Apple's Edition range is made from 18 karat gold and has a price tag starting at $10,000 in the US and £8,000 in the UK.
3840
So this man drought Ingram says means that women are losing a fighting battle.
New eHarmony study finds while women want love, they spend almost half the time that men do seeking it .
3841
'We thank Barca for the deal they offered the player and the efforts they have gone to try to renew his contract,' El Ouriachi's agent, Raul Verdu, told Catalan newspaper Sport.
3842
The prison was completely secure and a plaque on the wall, which remains in the reception area today, reads: 'Please do not ask for bail because a refusal often offends.'
3843
Pep Guardiola is set to enter into contract negotiations with Bayern Munich at the end of the season .
3844
examined, but Bukowski said Taylor's history of violence and previous escape attempts didn't necessarily single him out for stricter security measures.
3845
That Cantlow disputes favouritism for Monday's race is largely due to the presence of McCoy on his back.
‘He has worked well with tongue tie twice since with AP on board.
3846
The Department of Foreign Affairs was unable to confirm Sharky's death as its capacity to do so was 'extremely limited'.
May Allah bless your soul.'
3847
She said: 'I'll never be big again.
Now, when people say "well done", I feel nothing.'
Crohn's is described as chronic, meaning it is a life-long condition.
3848
Professing that 'nature belongs to no one', he did not seek permission from local authorities before the stunt.
'I do not ask for per­mis­sion be­cause na­ture be­longs to noone.
3849
Wayne Rooney once again returns to his boyhood club, where tensions always run high when the England captain returns to Goodison Park.
3850
Mr Coupe is believed to have travelled to the Middle Eastern country last Sunday to appeal the conviction, which dates back to a time when he didn't work at the firm, but this was unsuccessful, reports The Times.
3851
He explained that his son was fully trained and highly skilled when he worked in the military, but 'there's no training to be a civilian'.
3852
RBD is not curable, but it can be treated with high doses of the sleep aid or low doses of the anti-anxiety drug clonazepam.
RBD could be an early warning sign of Parkinson's disease, researchers said .
3853
The team spirit we have got here is brilliant.'
Young feels he and Wayne Rooney (left) are among those that have had to share the responsibility .
3854
Under the 'totting-up' procedure, the former player-manager of non-league side Salford City, was forced to hand over his licence having already accrued six points from two previous speeding offences.
3855
He described the catch as a life-long goal, and said that by the end of the struggle he was completely wiped out.
It was surreal.
3856
The Arsenal starting XI line up ahead of their FA Cup final against Liverpool on May 8, 1971 .
3857
Mervyn was known as an early pioneer of colour photography and often used the autochrome process, which involved using glass plates covered in potato starches grains to filter pictures with dye .
3858
'But this will still be typhoon intensity so it will bring strong winds when it makes landfall on the eastern coast.
The storm is expected to dissipate shortly after it leaves the Philippines.
3859
Covered up: Pedestrians cross a lower downtown street during a slow-moving spring storm Thursday, April 16, 2015, in Denver, Colorado last week .
3860
Subs not used: Adeyemi, O'Keefe, Moore, Gabbidon.
But his final pass carried too much pace and, with McAleny unable to retrieve it, the chance went begging.
3861
Mourinho was angered earlier this season when Sky used the headline ‘Diego Costa crimes’ in their analysis of Chelsea’s Capital One Cup semi-final win over Liverpool in January.
3862
We couldn’t beat Gordon Brown and now it seems we can’t beat Miliband who was supposed to be an even worse leader. ‘With the economy performing so well we should be miles ahead instead we are in danger of boring voters to death.’
3863
Jermain Defoe received a mixed ovation when he was introduced to the crowd at an event in Newcastle .
3864
‘He’s been an outstanding servant to this club and has played a vital part in its revival this season.
Celtic manager Ronny Deila has been linked with a move for the former Rangers player .
3865
As bookies named Ed Miliband the favourite to be the next prime minister, one business leader said: 'Every time Miliband is visible, he appears credible'
3866
#Draghi became a trending hashtag on Twitter - a rare event for a central banker.
 An ECB spokesman said the bank was investigating the incident.
3867
The party host Mike Williams, 30, told the paper he had been forced to close the party, intended for 500 people, after around 800 revelers turned up.
3868
McGlennan said that the Simoson ban, issued by an independent panel, was ‘unduly lenient’ but another independent tribunal upheld the original decision.
3869
Australian Federal Police confirmed to Daily Mail Australia that a man had been detained at the airport.
'It is illegal to fight in Syria for either side of the conflict.
3870
'Birds are descended from dinosaurs, but how exactly the transition occurred is not really clear.
This new discovery is a new species of these bird like dinosaurs.
3871
Matilda was chosen to play to Julie, who in the TV show died from putrid throat, because of her small size.
But I was there with sweets to make sure she was happy.'
3872
Serena Williams bids for her eighth Key Biscayne title Saturday against Carla Suarez Navarro.
'He started to play much more aggressive in the last two matches that he played me.
3873
Chelsea supporters are being invited to take part in a protest photo aimed at improving the rights and welfare of construction workers building the stadiums for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar.
3874
The NFL is set to hire Sarah Thomas as its first permanent female official for regular season games, according to reports.
3875
Hargrove struck back after the video was released, and said SeaWorld was trying to make him 'look like this awful person'.
3876
Ms Jarmain went missing in Maitland on Wednesday morning.
The SES has responded to more than 14,000 requests for assistance since Sunday.
3877
Ballyfin has been named by travel publication Condé Nast Traveller as the grandest hotel in Ireland .
'We spent Kanye's bday in Ireland a few years back & fell in love with it!
3878
However, the weapon had accidentally discharged, he said, causing a bullet to strike Miss White in the face, according to the Star Tribune.
3879
The Brooklyn resident was in court on Monday as prosecutors accused him of lying to investors about stock losses and pocketing most of the money entrusted to him for trading.
3880
Napoli boss Rafael Benitez has dismissed reports linking him to the Manchester City job .
Napoli's Marek Hamsik celebrates scoring his side's second goal during the 4-1 win over Wolfsburg .
3881
The school has banned students from bringing food onto the premises and has even erected barbed wire and metal sheeting to prevent smuggling at its back entrance .
3882
Oxford women made history on Saturday with a 12th boat race victory in 16 years on a landmark day for the sport.
But there’s always less suffering when you win!
3883
When it comes to lullabies, the classic Moon River, which Audrey Hepburn famously sang in Breakfast at Tiffany's (pictured), tops the chart for British parents .
3. Ice Baby by Vanilla Ice .
6. Sing by Ed Sheeran .
8. Timber by Pitbull Ft. Kesha . 9. Groovy Kind Of Love by Phil Collins .
by Sam Smith
3884
Mata was the two-goal hero during his side's 2-1 win against Liverpool in May with his sensational volley on the hour mark proving the highlight of the Anfield triumph.
3885
Ms Hellqvist is expected to become Princess Sofia of Sweden following the wedding, although her title will not be officially decided until the ceremony.
3886
To date, the clip has been watched thousands of times with viewers giving it a big thumbs up.
Already Nathaly is bilingual and able to understand Spanish and English.
3887
It is time for Floyd to lose.'
Pacquiao says it is time for the undefeated Mayweather to lose and he will be the man to inflict defeat .
3888
Ronaldo believes that football will continue to grow in popularity in the United States and that the lifestyle on offer in America appeals to the elite calibre of players.
3889
Amie Cox said she bonded to younger son Alex (pictured, right, with his brother William, 7) so strongly after his birth that she 'didn't like people to rub their smell on him by touching him' and that continued for his first six to 12 months, although she is now used to it .
3890
Mark Jones is accused of killing 41-day-old Amelia Rose Jones at his daughter's terraced home in Pontnewydd, south east Wales.
The case continues.
3891
Come the weekend, she returns to Scott and their cat Cleo — no questions asked.
I assumed they were joking, but that’s more or less precisely what Rinaldi has done.
3892
Defoe eventually sets an impressive score of 76 for his team-mates to attempt to beat .
'I have said many times that I missed the Premier League and it's because of games like this,' he said.
3893
Ulysses Beaudoin (left), 39, of Texas, is accusing of killing his 22-year-old son and namesake, Ulysses Nelson (right), when the young man tried to intercede on behalf of his mother during a domestic argument .
3894
But McCall said: ‘We know where we’d like to improve our side and we’re prepared to wait for the right person.
3895
Light the lights?
A 'proof of concept' presentation for advertising executives is in the works already, ABC confirmed to DailyMail.com.
3896
He added that the authorities had checked he had not withdrawn money from his bank account when he first went missing, though they will now scrutinise his credit card and bank statements for any activity during the period he says he was drifting.
3897
The coastguard, police, paramedics, firefighters and an RAF rescue helicopter were all scrambled to the scene in early hours of Easter Sunday.
3898
‘There is nothing worse than not being involved,’ he told the Daily Telegraph.
Zaha made just four appearances for Manchester United in two years with the club .
3899
George Foreman v Muhammad Ali .
Ali (left) often found himself against the ropes in a strategy which even surprised his trainer Angelo Dundee .
3900
'He (Vaughan) is close enough to the game to make changes which need to happen for the good of English cricket,' Pietersen said.
3901
And after a week of turmoil and complaints – from clubs and supporters – over the unhealthy sway television has on kick-off times, Deila says the balance of power in the relationship is all wrong.
3902
A source said that both she and the bank would ‘assess’ whether she should stand for re-election in 2016 ‘closer to the time’.
3903
Films on Buy and Keep can be bought by creating an account, or signing in, at Skystore.com or through the Sky Store app on Android and iOS.
3904
This was reiterated with a pre-match lap of the pitch by host Jake Humphrey and his pundits which really drew those of us at home into the moment.
3905
It also emerged last month that DIY SOS star Nick Knowles could become the new Top Gear presenter because the BBC believe he is a 'safe pair of hands'.
3906
He said Zaidee's Rainbow Foundation tried to raise awareness of organ and tissue donation.
'We try to [do events] left of field for organ and tissue donation,' he said.
3907
The world No 4 is into the semi-finals of the Miami Open, but not before getting a scare from 21 year-old Austrian Dominic Thiem, who pushed him to 4-4 in the second set before going down 3-6 6-4, 6-1 in an hour and three quarters.
3908
Built at a cost of £1 billion, New Broadcasting House is the jewel in the crown of the BBC and the setting for its self-mocking satire W1A.
3909
'We have had a three week period of glorious sunshine and people get used to it, this will be a shock to the system.
3910
In the end, Reading were unable to wreck Arsenal’s defence of the trophy or Wenger’s drive towards becoming only the second manager in history to win it six times, after George Ramsay with Aston Villa, all prior to 1920.
3911
Cecil Hamilton-Miller, from Kensington, London, was responsible for the convictions of 31 concentration camp guards in 1945, including several key Belsen figures, such as camp commander Josef Kramer and Dr Fritz Klein.
3912
She then is said to have chased him down with the SUV, driving in circles as he tried to hide behind a light pole, according to the Arizona Republic.
3913
A grandmother is facing a raft of serious charges after being involved in a severe car crash and failing a sobriety test at the crime scene.
3914
'When her treatment is completed, we will take her to court and she can either waive or fight extradition,' Capt. Paul Starks of the Montgomery County, Maryland, police said in a statement.
3915
A woman who managed to escape the clutches of Islamic State has revealed how people are living in fear and suffering under the terror organisation.
3916
Uproar: The gaffe is only the latest example of companies like AT&T and Kenneth Cole that have sparked controversy or offense on social media .
3917
Campaign trail:
Costa Coffee and supermarket chain Morrisons have signed agreements to train thousands of apprentices each.
.
3918
For while the US Democrat has previously spoken of her British ancestry, a definitive family tree has revealed her links to a poor mining community in the Welsh Valleys.
3919
Melvin the giraffe had got his head stuck in a fence when he was attacked by an eland antelope walking in the same enclosure at Kristiansand zoo, around 200 miles south of Oslo.
3920
Porto's win over German giants Bayern Munich has been celebrated in Portugal by their media.
We will need to produce a perfect performance in Germany next week to progress.'
3921
Maggie and Alex were pictured enjoying a romantic dinner later that night .
Pretty in pink: Maggie and Cecilia donned matching pastel outfits for Easter .
3922
Ms Rosenquist added: 'I was so afraid that by the bird making its nest in the lamp post it would create a short circuit and be killed'
3923
Ms Scott's sister Kim had flown to Australia from Abu Dhabi for the wedding, only to learn of her disappearance when she arrived .
Mr Leeson-Woolley reports to police that Ms Scott is missing .
3924
At the nearby monastery in Gangtey, we joined hundreds of local families at the Black-Necked Crane Festival, timed to coincide with the annual migration.
3925
Eventually an injury to Moya left Simeone with Oblak in goal against Bayer Leverkusen, where he became a hero in the penalty shoot-out which secured the team passage to this round of the Champions League, and Atletico Madrid's goalkeeper was brilliant again against Madrid.
3926
Bayern Munich boss Pep Guardiola will see out his three-year contract, claims Karl-Heinz Rummenigge .
This just proves the quality of the coach.
3927
Christy, pictured training her first marathon in 2011, launched Every Mother Counts in 2010, an organization dedicated to making pregnancy and childbirth safe for mothers around the world .
3928
Mr Gunn started an affair with Mrs O'Riordan last year and the romance led to her husband placing a GPS tracker on her car as he hired a private detective to watch her movements.
3929
They hope the new therapy could save thousands of lives in future.
The woman was given her first dose of ipilimumab and nivolumab, without complaining of any side effects.
3930
You get the football version of mopping up the toilets.
Some got angry again when John Barnes suggested a manager on a bad run will get sacked sooner if he’s black.
3931
In total, Shaw has only made 17 appearances in all competitions - a figure he admits is less than satisfactory.
'I haven’t scored yet so I don’t know.
3932
I said, 'Do you know how important this game is?'.
'He said, 'I have played in some massive derbies.
At the end of the day, it's all about getting the win.'
3933
She is pictured here at her 30th birthday party in Las Vegas when she was fully suffering the effects .
The disease has given her 'perspective,' she added.
3934
In 1975, NBC hired Michaels to create a show to run on Saturday nights.
Along as being recognized by TIME, in February Michaels was named on Billboard magazine’s Power 100 list.
3935
But for many stars, such as Madonna who's been showing off her mock croc 'dealer' purse, that statement is becoming increasingly controversial, with clutches and handbags emblazoned with unsavoury slogans and pictures.
3936
As the video begins it shows one man throwing a large suitcase, which lands on the belt with a heavy thud.
It's quicker and your luggage would be treated a little better.'
3937
The police arrested Bailey at her home in Ramsbottom - and her victim died eight weeks later.
'When she found out her friend of 70 years had betrayed her trust she was devastated.'
3938
The think-tank warned that Labour's failure to control borrowing would leave Britain 'less well placed to deal with future adverse events', such as another recession or the costs of an ageing population.
3939
After hospital tests and treatment for what was perceived as a 'deep wound', Negri returned to action in the New Year to train with the reserve team where he suffered a shooting pain in his right knee and leg.
3940
Those found Thursday by a team, which included Myanmar officials, remain in Benjina.
A former slave now in Tual said conditions were relatively good there.
3941
Last year, the Mail found British companies had placed almost 8,000 job adverts trying to recruit Romanian nurses, taxi drivers and hotel staff.
3942
'He judges pace so well.
'Seamus Durack (now a Lambourn trainer) bought a house but liked living at AP's so much he rented it out and stayed at AP's.'
3943
Since 1903, experts have been arguing the creature was originally misnamed.
'Especially when hypotheses are based on fragmentary fossils, it is possible for new finds to overthrow years of research.'
3944
The lamp uses a rechargeable battery and offers three hours of continuous light .
Perhaps more usefully, the lamp can also be used as a sleep aid and an alarm clock.
3945
Gestede and Rhodes provided it for Blackburn.
Manager Gary Bowyer is realistic enough to know that they might not both be at Ewood next season.
3946
Neymar looked out of sorts in the 1-0 win over Celta Vigo and has not scored for Barcelona since February 15 .
'He is a friend and I am in touch with him from time to time,' Luis Enrique said.
3947
The judgment came after HSBC Holdings was formally placed under criminal investigation for complicity in fiscal fraud and illegal selling via its Swiss arm for two years starting in 2006.
3948
Gabby Giffords and her astronaut husband were seen jetting out of Los Angeles on Thursday ahead of the Easter weekend after taking a trip to visit his former space shuttle .
3949
RSPCA inspectors discovered the animals in some of the 'worst conditions' they had ever seen .
All animals are now in the charity's care .
3950
The rhetoric from Argentina will get worse.'
The commitment came after it was revealed earlier this year that Russia could be helping to re-arm Argentina.
3951
LINDT CHOCOLATE BUNNY 100g
.
TO
:
Dr Christie has calculated that many popular eggs contain more than the recommended daily amount of sugar.
3952
The advice is supposed to help pupils develop positive body images amid ‘society’s intense focus on physical appearance’.
3953
After Apollo, she photographed Avery, a little girl born prematurely who underwent multiple brain surgeries, Melanie, a four-year-old with autism and epilepsy, and Cody, a red-headed boy with Down syndrome.
3954
According to Variety, Pfeiffer's role will be that of a morning news anchor, making it very similar to the real life role Couric played as co-host of Today for 15 years.
3955
Five round marks can be seen on the windscreen of the Fenerbahce team bus after the attack .
Ashen-faced head coach Ismail Kartal surveys the damage to the team bus .
3956
The dispute comes after Peter Longerich, a leading authority on the Holocaust and Nazi Germany, drew on the diaries for a biography called Goebbels, which was published in Germany in 2010.
3957
UK Power Networks said that 100 staff had worked through the night to restore electricity to the area, but it is not known when buildings will regain power.
3958
Insecticide has been sprayed in prairie dog burrows in Picture Canyon to halt the plague's spread.
Symptoms of pain in humans include fever, chills and muscle pain.
3959
Last year an American holidaymaker was caught peeing in Piazza Santa Croce, a historic square, just a few months before two visitors were spotted having sex against a wall near Palazzo Vecchio, the town hall, according to The Local.
3960
TV cameras caught him confidently getting up to accept the accolade before slipping and falling headfirst into the darkness.
Caught on camera:
3961
And the report suggests that when babies died, midwives conspired to cover up the failings.
She noted that the system had been flawed but that she was governed by those procedures.
3962
He told CNN: 'Unfortunately, we have a number of eyewitness accounts that point to the strong likelihood that the child was dangled over the rail.'
3963
From tomorrow morning, customers will be able to preorder their watch online.
Each version of the watch will come in different colour options.
3964
She added: 'God willing, I want my son Steven to be OK.
We've already been told he's not a bone marrow match, so Rachel will need to go on the bone marrow register.'
3965
Leading up to the Manchester United game I had a full week of training as well, so it's been two weeks of full training,' he said.
3966
Arsenal .
The Frenchman, aided by a strike from fellow countryman Robert Pires, led the Gunners to a 4-2 victory at Highbury in April 2004.
3967
Tesco’s clothing brand F&F has launched what is estimated to be the cheapest bridal gown on the market.
The cheaper materials mean it can be handwashed at home.
3968
She continued to grapple with him as he wielded the 60 centimetre-long machete, sustaining further wounds to both hands, before her colleagues turned up to bring the man under control.
3969
While only the 12 most visited country by plane, Greece is the biggest improver over the past year with its 5.6 million incoming passengers from Britain a 13.2 per cent increase.
3970
Liverpool defender Mamadou Sakho will miss Monday's visit of Newcastle with a hamstring injury.
Daryl Janmaat trains with Newcastle United in a running session on Tuesday .
3971
Even after all these years, the Englishman could barely contain his excitement at driving down Magnolia Lane for the Masters.
.
No cameras.
3972
Spanish papers preview that match (left) and Barcelona's second leg against PSG on Tuesday night too .
Sticking with Juventus, La Gazzetta dello Sport focuses on the future of Carlos Tevez.
3973
This dog is lost in deep concentration.
Pakak's owner says she loves playing with balls.
Other videos reveal the pup also has a passion for swimming and being by the sea.
3974
Mr Gee said he had organised the day with the Western Downs Regional Council to ensure everything would run smoothly.
Despite the confirmation, the hole had not been dug ahead of time.
3975
About 27 people have been arrested after looting local businesses and setting several buildings on fire as revenge for Gray's death.
3976
He’s a naturally fit lad and he seems really focused too, so that was pleasing.
And the way the season has panned out for us, it will now need to be through the play offs.’
3977
MIDFIELER: XAVI .
Xavi is an unbelievable player.
I know he is a quality player.
STRIKER: NEYMAR .
Messi is the best player I have seen in my life.
3978
The first-round encounter was headed to extra time on Tuesday until former Holland Under 21 international Charlton Vicento scored in the 87th minute, five minutes after coming on as a substitute.
3979
Crystal Palace midfielder Joe Ledley will be given every opportunity to prove his fitness for Saturday's Barclays Premier League match at Sunderland.
3980
Documents show his club’s wage bill soared by another £1million last season alone despite investigation .
‘The big cities have that soccer culture but built over 100 years.
3981
Provisional squad: Schmeichel, Schwarzer, Hamer, Simpson, Moore, Upson, Wasilewski, Morgan, Huth, De Laet, Konchesky, King, Hammond, Knockaert, Albrighton, Schlupp, Cambiasso, James, Mahrez, Nugent, Kramaric, Vardy, Ulloa.
3982
The widow's trip into New York was originally only supposed to last for several days.
Iona Costello also has family in England, though they have not heard from her, according to Southold Local.
3983
The secret Ukip-commissioned poll, leaked to The Mail on Sunday, shows that Farage has fallen behind his Tory opponent in the Kent seat he is contesting.
3984
Its previous plane was destroyed in a crash in the Mojave Desert in October 2014.
Its predecessor was destroyed in the Mojave Desert on 31 October 2014.
3985
She worked as a teacher at the International School in the capital city of Sana'a until the troubles forced the facility to close over safety fears.
3986
Obama held his first state dinner toward the end of his first year in office, honouring then-Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (pictured, above with his wife Gursharan Kaur (far left)
3987
The incident is difficult to comprehend as the collision was much more than just a minor skirmish on the tarmac at the busy Asian airport.
3988
Swansea striker Bafetimbi Gomis will miss three to four weeks with a hamstring injury.
Loan signing Nelson Oliveira and Marvin Emnes will compete to fill Gomis' spot at Leicester on Saturday.
3989
The suit also claims that the team did not use necessary sterile techniques and routinely left therapy devices, equipment and surfaces unclean, according to ESPN.
3990
'Upon learning of the troubling misconduct, the Brenham clinic where the veterinarian was practicing immediately condemned her actions and terminated her employment.
3991
Pellegrini believes that Palace's first goal, scored by stirker Glenn Murray, was clearly offside .
We have 39 points on the board, so we’d like to think we’ll be back here next year.
3992
The 31-year-old is preparing to take part in a 54-mile cycle from London to Brighton to raise money for charity .
Sweaty Betty anusara yoga vest .
3993
But Wasps soon began to dominate and a lineout close to the try-line was bundled over by Johnson in his first start as hooker.
3994
'He was so proud of what this wonderful company he founded 65 years ago has accomplished.'
He also became a major backer of stem-cell research.
3995
The vague charge of 'provoking trouble' has been increasingly used by Chinese police under President Xi Jinping to detain and jail protesters from holding small-scale demonstrations.
3996
'They have quality players in their team, they are effective and everything is possible in a game.
'It will be the most difficult challenge but hopefully they can do it.'
3997
The 37-year-old replaced Diego Costa during the second half of Chelsea's 2-1 win over Stoke on Saturday after the Spain international was forced off with a hamstring injury.
3998
An animal service officer investigating the case said she has a dozen of leads coming in from Tennessee and Georgia following the incident.
3999
For both those . years, CHAI said its initial filings had over-reported .
CHAI will also continue to receive . foreign government funding, again with additional restrictions.
4000
Reality star Linsey 'Jade' Berardi has died aged 22.
We may not have been friends BUT we shared an experience most will never have or truly understand.'
4001
The incident, which police are investigating, went on for five minutes, as the man pulled off the 'stunt' just yards from lorries .
4002
Kim Kardashian has revealed that she is going to great lengths to make sure that her luxurious designer wardrobe stays in mint condition because she plans on handing ‘everything’ down to her 22-month-old daughter North West.
4003
Hut 433 on Mudeford Spit went on sale for £270,000 in July 2014 - making it the most expensive beach hut in Britain.
4004
'I realised that I had lost all this weight but I effectively made myself redundant from my job as a model,' she said.
My body repulsed me.
4005
The visit, which kicked off with a pageant aboard a flotilla of boats on the local canal, was part of Willem-Alexander's 48th birthday celebrations.
4006
'The cat was further distressed when it was forced to cling on to him (the defendant), and being dropped in the bath was a further traumatic experience.
4007
The father pretended to be a police officer investigating a crime over the phone, claiming he needed the assistance of taxi drivers in the area .
4008
In the most recent Instagram post, he said: '16 days to go.
Earning an estimated $180million from the bout, Mayweather is confident he won't lose his perfect record .
4009
Helen Smith added: 'Not impressed with the red lids on the diet coke'.
'The new red caps have the Coca-Cola variant clearly labelled on the top,' say the soft drinks company .
4010
Shaheen Pirouz from Denton, Texas, filmed her tiny pet canine being propped up and repeatedly falling forwards.
Pirouz is heard cooing in the background as she watches the sweet moment unfold.
4011
It’s about inspiring you.
Ferguson's haul of 49 assorted cups and prizes making him easily Britain’s most successful ever manager .
4012
Her feet are webbed, and local reporters have cruelly dubbed the deformed extremities as 'trotters'
Jiang Min breaks down while telling Chinese reporters about her dire situation.
4013
A former primary school teacher has been charged with dozens of sexual offences against children.
All of the schools have been informed of his arrest and are helping police with inquiries.
4014
Santo said: 'What we have seen confirms what we already thought.
Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema has been ruled out of his side's La Liga match against Malaga .
4015
Today’s SNP election manifesto will be the first to be the focus of intense national scrutiny.
Indeed, we were told that Scotland shouldn’t leave the UK but lead the UK,’ she said.
4016
At first, the parents' fear of contagion proved weaker than their mistrust of the medical system.
Right now my family is living the consequences of misinformation and fear.'
4017
Antonio Conte insisted his return to Turin prompted 'fond memories', despite reports he received death threats .
4018
Suzuki said business has picked up since the videos went viral, and tourists are invited to sign and leave comments in a guestbook.
4019
Her husband is understood to be 'tolerant' of the relationship.
Her pictures have been widely circulating online in China creating huge interest with legions of netizens who have not held back with their comments.
4020
Worker hornets have lifespans of 30-55 days.
Ministers drew up battle plans in case killer Asian hornets are discovered in Britain last year.
4021
The Catholic Church has been accused of blocking the appointment of the first ever homosexual ambassador to Vatican City.
4022
Best actor contenders are James McAvoy for The Ruling Class, Tim Pigott-Smith for King Charles III, Mark Strong for A View from the Bridge and Richard Armitage for The Crucible.
4023
Martin Skrtel was a big presence.
Jordan Henderson has chipped in with some important goals and impressed with his boundless energy .
4024
The problem is the frequency band proposed for the lawnbot is 6240-6740 MHz - the same one several large radio telescopes operate on.
4025
Other esteemed guests included Charles Portal, 1st Viscount Portal of Hungerford, former Chief of Air Staff, 1st Baron Arthur Tedder - Eisenhower's deputy commander for the invasion of Normandy, and Sir Arthur 'Bomber' Harris, former head of Bomber Command.
4026
Patty's heartwarming reaction was captured on film by a relative, showing her overcome with emotion at the artwork.
Her reaction is priceless.'
4027
In theory that was to take care of Edinson Cavani, but the striker was extremely quiet.
Verratti and Luiz aside, looked like the only PSG player who really, truly cared.
4028
The dog caused a severe fire after managing to switch on the cooker while trying to reach his dog treats.
A search of the house later revealed that the source of fire was the cooker.
4029
The couple have been forced to board up every window in their home for protection .
'We've had eggs and golf balls thrown at our bungalow and three of our windows are still chipped.
4030
If anything, the way we played against Leinster adds more confidence because I thought there were times when we showed all we can do,’ Watson said.
4031
Scorers: Gueye 79', Hooiveld 87' Charlton: Henderson, Solly, Gomez, Johnson, Fox, Gudmundsson, Diarra, Cousins, Eagles (Bikey), Vetokele (Bulot), Watt (Church).
4032
The case was Nashville's most notorious unsolved murder for 33 years.
The match happened after he was arrested for the 1975 murder of Vanderbilt University student Sarah Vannatta Des Prez.
4033
He recently scored two goals in the second leg of the Youth Cup semi-final with Tottenham, helping swing the tie in their favour.
4034
Kate Major Lohan has been arrested for a 'drunken attack' on her husband Michael Lohan, TMZ report.
She was pulled over by police where she tested three times over the drink drive limit.
4035
It is hoped the exhibition will be featured at La Llotja, which is a former art and crafts centre in the city .
4036
The Democratic leader said the onus remains on Romney to produce evidence that he did pay his taxes.
'Let him give us his tax returns.
Zero.
4037
Abola (left) report on Porto's 'terror in Munich' while Record called the defeat a 'disaster' for the team .
4038
Despite initially shrugging off calls for the adoption of goal-line technology to be approved, FIFA relented two years later with the system fully operational last year in Brazil.
4039
He was found at the Pi Kappa Alpha house in Columbia, not far from campus, around 10:30am on March 18, the morning after an alleged 'kegger' at the house for the annual Irish holiday.
4040
After the win over United, when asked if Chelsea were celebrating winning the title early, Drogba said: 'You should never celebrate too early.
4041
In a formal grievance procedure with the BBC in 2013, Mrs Csaszar raised a complaint about the closure of a cash office run by an outside contractor.
4042
But it’s not clear if this caused the jet - or an explosion of material caused by ice sublimating (turning from solid to gas) underground.
4043
The last time Woods took an extended break before the Masters, he had won his previous tournament at the Australian Masters.
4044
This after Nguyen somehow managed to pilot the helicopter while getting out of his flight suit and jumping into the ocean just seconds before it crashed - all on his own.
4045
Serena Williams strikes a pose next to her cake after recording her 700th career victory .
Lisicki and Williams shake hands at the net after the tight match at the Miami Open .
4046
The 60-year-old wants his side to do so via Fair Play - with the club currently first in the Premier League .
Behaviour of the team officials .
4047
A host of international footballers past and present took to social media on Thursday to celebrate St George's Day.
4048
ISIS has released a chilling new propaganda video warning there is 'no safety for any American on the globe' and claiming the U.S. will burn in another 9/11-style attack.
4049
Using several telescopes, including Nasa's Chandra X-ray Observatory, researchers have found evidence that a white dwarf star - the dense core of a star like the Sun that has run out of nuclear fuel - may have ripped apart a planet as it came too close.
4050
Democrat campaigners Jared Milrad and Nate Johnson, from Chicago, Illinois, claimed they were surprised to find out that their same-sex wedding plans were featured on Sunday's video announcing Clinton's 2016 bid.
4051
A few months ago Aston Villa would have been happy with Premier League survival.
Tim Sherwood has invigorated this side and you can feel that improvement in their performances.
4052
In underground coal mines, it is a deadly hazard that causes fatal explosions almost every year as it seeps out of the rock.
4053
'This is definitely going to catch on with kids,' he says of the technology.
Darline (pictured) is completely unimpressed with Snapchat, calling it 'stupid'
4054
A straightforward set-piece resulted in a free header for one of the smallest men on the pitch.
Relegated: Alfreton, Telford United, Dartford, Nuneaton .
4055
While they don't want to help people become 'famous internet freaks', Dr Dubrow explained that it is important for them to fix the patient's surgical problem because 'they still deserve the right to be back in society normally'.
4056
Pellegrini said: 'Maybe they are playing different.
Pellegrini (left) will try to close the gap between his team and Chelsea at the top of the Premier League .
4057
Aaron Bee was wanted by Lincolnshire Police over an alleged domestic violence and assault.
Before his arrest Bee said he was taunting police 'as a bit of fun'.
4058
Steele was taken into custody and has been charged with murder.
Richardson was six months pregnant and her child - a girl - has safely delivered at a local hospital .
4059
Manchester City have been accused of trying to relocate disabled fans by hiking up season ticket prices .
There's 134 of us and we are obviously not important.'
4060
Elche celebrate after striker Jonathas scored to clinch a 1-0 win over Real Sociedad in La Liga on Monday .
4061
Fans are threatening to boycott the next home game in protest at Mike Ashley’s running of the club .
And Carver has urged fans to get behind the team.
4062
By 2050 in Europe, Muslims will make up one in ten of the overall population.
The region's Christian population will shrink from 553million to 454million, according to projections.
4063
The professor said she would not divulge in her column how the mistake happened.
But McElroy said she wondered why no one thought to question the 'dignity of those who forwarded the unintended post'.
4064
Acetaminophen has been in use for more than 70 years, but this is the first time that this side effect has been discovered.
4065
'He has come through the sevens programme and really developed as a player, and now he has an exciting opportunity to move back to 15s and play at a very good Premiership side.'
4066
Mr Gale appreciates that this placed governors in a difficult situation given that rumours could have a negative effect upon the reputation of the school.’
4067
The family urged anyone with information about the incident to contact police to help them 'find justice for Bernadette and Sarah'.
4068
Frail Gaston Pinsard, 96, is thought to be Britain's oldest serving prison .
His wife has now passed away, but Pinsard was accompanied to court by his son.
4069
Leanne Mitchell, the first ever winner of The Voice UK, has been dropped by her record label and now works as a holiday camp performer.
JLS
4070
Rose wrote about her Hurricane Sandy experience in a college application essay in which she talked about the storm and how reading helped her cope.
4071
A Spanish man who shot and wounded his daughter's boyfriend (both pictured) and barricaded himself into his own home has been shot dead .
4072
One in three don’t pay off their bill each month and 96 per cent  make at least one unplanned purchase a month, with shopping sprees being the most common transaction.
4073
Nico Rosberg fears the threat from Ferrari in this weekend's Bahrain Grand Prix, describing their pace as 'dangerous' and 'worrying'.
4074
Alissa Sizemore can be seen dancing on a wooden bench during her first solo dance performance since she lost her leg in an accident last May .
4075
BURNLEY .
Hull, Leicester and QPR .
Leicester have shown signs of pulling off a miracle, but do they have the quality to stay up this season?
4076
In a desperate bid for help, he called 911 and spoke to a bemused operator for 44 seconds before he was cut off.
The airline says it is investigating the situation.
4077
Muhammadu Buhari said his government will do 'everything in their power' to find and return around 220 missing schoolgirls to their families, as young girl joins the rally outside the Nigerian ministry of education .
4078
However, she said she felt a ‘moral duty’ to challenge a practice that was not grounded in evidence.
4079
Lawyers for jailed millionaire Robert Durst say he wants authorities to return more than $161,000 in cash taken after the real estate heir was arrested for murder.
4080
All the training will take place there,' he told ABC television.
Mr Andrews said 5,000 Iraqi troops had already been trained by four international training missions.
4081
Sixty per cent are artificial and the grass pitches are better as well because they don’t train there and there aren’t other teams playing on them.
And we play in the summer.
4082
It can be hard to find but the dogs can detect it through carpet and wall panelling.
To call out Mr Doggett and his pair of sniffer dogs to hunt for dry rot cost £200 .
4083
A Pew Research Center survey found that 92 percent of US teens go online daily - and 25% admit they are online constantly.
4084
However, many experts say that driverless cars could actually reduce the risk of accidents as computers are able to react a lot faster than humans.
4085
'A 25-year-old man and a 22-year-old woman have been arrested on suspicion of murder and are currently helping police with their inquiries'.
4086
Rumours on social media suggest the alleged victim has made a claim of rape at a police station, but this has not been confirmed.
4087
'I was released by mistake.
Government inspectors criticised the prison in 2012 who found it was severely over crowded by 50 per cent.
4088
According to New York Daily News, Selfish will have '115 cleavage shots, 23 butt shots, 10 nude selfies and only one shot of her baby bump from 2013.'
4089
A survey has revealed that on average, pets watch 21 hours of TV of week, whether its with their owners or by themselves .
X Factor (10%)
4090
She explained that her first test for cancer came back negative but that she was correctly diagnosed after seeking a second opinion and underwent the procedure last week.
4091
In one of the five hold ups across Salford, Greater Manchester, a girl of eight was forcibly pushed up a road on her bicyle and left crying hysterically after being robbed of her mobile phone.
4092
A crane was required to remove the fully submerged car from the pool.
A taxi driver involved in the bungle fled the scene of the accident leaving the 23-year-old to explain to police .
4093
A teenager with a deadly brain tumour must raise $80,000 by Tuesday night in order to pay for his life-saving surgery.
Messages of support have also flooded social media for the Casino teenager.
4094
This makes a central register all the more important, as it gives patients the tools to check exactly in whose hands they are putting their vision.
4095
The Newsagency  in central Mittagong where the winning Oz Lotto entry was purchased .
They said they had some celebratory drinks when they found out because they couldn't sleep.
4096
In a public statement dated April 20, HSBC said 'a link to an external third-party website has been removed' from its community projects webpage.
The banking giant insisted its website remained secure.
4097
After the tribunal application was lodged, the hotel reinvestigated but found only one count, the neck kissing to be proved and that Miss Southern had encouraged it.
4098
Lead study author Professor Ros Eeles, from the Institute of Cancer Research in London, said: ‘We gained a much broader view of prostate cancer by studying both the original cancer and the cells that had spread to other parts of the body.
4099
She then walked towards them with the knife at her side, according to the Guardian.
The officers involved in the incident were cleared of any wrongdoing by a local prosecutor in November.
4100
More than 10,000 Australians and New Zealanders are expected to attend the Anazc Commemorative site at Gallipoli for the Anzac Day 100th anniversary commemoration this year.
4101
Last year, Mugabe promoted his wife to a senior position within his ruling ZANU-PF party where she led a vicious campaign to remove former vice-president Joice Mujuru from office.
4102
In it, Holder described an 'emotional attachment' to the department and recounted efforts to protect civil rights, prosecute terror suspects in federal court and change the criminal justice system.
4103
The BBC has been slammed for making a computer game simulating the terrifying ordeal Syrian refugees face as they try to flee their war-torn country.
4104
I’m getting people who say “I wouldn’t even tell a pollster on the phone that I’m voting Ukip in case they smash my windows in”.
4105
Mr Pettigrew, who wasn't diagnosed with CF until he was 38-years-old, is looking to bring hope to children and teens with the fatal disease.
4106
This picture has shows Western Sydney blanketed by floodwaters and hail on Saturday .
Gosford - Min 13 to max 22 degrees, showers easing .
4107
The filmmaker captured the moment the balloon collides with the side of the transmission tower .
The horrifying incident took place in the sky over Russia’s Dmitrov district.
4108
Last week Real Madrid chief Zinedine Zidane admitted the Spanish giants were scouting the Liverpool star, while Bayern Munich are also interested.
4109
The north London-based charity say that the presence of a cat and the scent it leaves behind will often be enough to scare away unwanted rodents.
4110
Given he missed the clash at St James' Park with a cold, his appearance at a Berlin nightspot raised eyebrows, but Wenger said: 'He went out for 30 minutes for a friends birthday, I was satisfied with his explanation.'
4111
Hamilton (centre) said the incident occurred at Nelson Mandela's 90th birthday party back in 2008 .
It was crazy.
'And I didn't even apologise, I just kept going.'
4112
'He started playing junior tournaments in the area after that and a lot of the fathers would come up and tell me what a terrific story it was,' Peter said.
4113
His present deal expires in June and his future has been clouded in uncertainty since contract negotiations reached deadlock in December.
4114
The pictures of how the Rubber Bowl looks now were taken by photographer Seph Lawless as part of his Autopsy of America project .
4115
He said: 'I'm too scared to go back.
I can't sleep at night and I don't know what to do.'
Det Sgt Alisa Wilson said: 'This was a horrific attack on a young man in his own home.
4116
Subs not used: Nyambe, Spurr, Songo'o, Lenihan, Steele, Mahoney.
Over the course of the piece, Liverpool deserved their win.
Aston Villa vs Liverpool .
4117
'That's OK — I am not giving up,' Banda said.
Banda wrote a book that detailed how she used cannabis oil to treat her debilitating Crohn's disease .
4118
Number of gears .
7 .
20 .
5 .
Mr Tuckett sources his Ford spares from all over the globe and carefully puts the machines back together again.
4119
Van Gaal has revealed that Rooney may play in holding midfield role against Chelsea .
But we train and I think he is fit enough.’
I believe in facts.
4120
Winger Phillips garnered just enough power on his head to plant beyond Brad Guzan in the Aston Villa goal .
A replay of QPR's goals will not make pleasant viewing.
4121
A similar display was shown in Sydney's Manly Beach back in August 2014 where an oceanography expert told Daily Mail Australia there was no need to be concerned about the algae.
4122
'It's nice some time when you get a bit of loving from people, and I think that's the only thing that's missing with Alastair at the minute.'
4123
Asked whether Oscar is struggling, as he was substituted at half-time, Mourinho said: ‘No, I don’t think he had a bad performance, I just think he was not good enough, which is a huge difference.
4124
Illinois Rep. Luis Gutierrez said that if a person is arrested of detained, he or she can 'explain that under the policy in place today, you should be released because you are not a priority for deportation'.
4125
Alliss defended his style from critics, saying: 'I think they just don't like my delivery.
And in the middle of the desert they have created a golfing oasis.
4126
Barnholm Castle in Dumfries and Galloway, which has gone on the market for £695,000 after being transformed from old ruins .
She described the restoration project as a labour of love .
4127
Hector Bellerin as well has come into the team.
'I have a quality bench and we even have quality players at home like Chamberlain, Arteta, Wilshere.
4128
A Brazilian online football store claims to have next season's Chelsea kit for sale on its website - and it can be purchased with Gareth Bale's name on the back.
4129
They also said that Zelepos is going to forfeit funds he put in accounts in an attempt to skip currency transaction reports (CTRs), which come to $522,658.
4130
Dr Seuss fans flock to Alaska to visit this 12-cabin-high structure that looks like one of his illustrations .
So they built up.
Birds-eye view:
4131
Manchester City players show their dejection at the derby defeat on Sunday afternoon .
Manchester United players celebrate as Chris Smalling (centre) scores their fourth goal of the afternoon .
4132
Sterling is still operating as a winger when Liverpool attack.
One imagines that midfielder Emre Can didn’t sign for Liverpool expecting to be part of a back three.
4133
Dorset-based charity will now use the money to build a new hospice in Wiltshire .
It's a hospice for children with terminal illnesses.
4134
Manchester United striker Falcao awaits the arrival of Aguero - backed by a mass of Red Devils' supporters .
4135
Henderson and Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet both played their 47th game of season in the 2-0 win over Newcastle United on Monday night, equalling the record for appearances by any player in the top five European leagues so far this campaign.
4136
The 511 elephant tusks worth $6million (£4m), bound for Laos, were seized upon arrival on Saturday at a major port in Chonburi province in eastern Thailand .
4137
The incident unfolded in front of Fernando Alonso (right) who moved up two places .
He was also given two penalty points on his superlicence.
4138
Police say the 'unusual' appeal  is necessary as those photographed may be able to answer questions of the victims' families .
4139
'Filters have been synonymous with Instagram from day one, to help people capture and share photos that looked and felt as beautiful as they did in real life,' continued Instagram.
4140
Sharon Wood listened intently as the details of how they were killed by fumes at the four-star Corfu hotel were outlined at an inquest.
4141
Juventus monitoring Raheem Sterling's situation at Liverpool.
Juventus are monitoring Liverpool wideman Raheem Sterling as the Serie A side look to strengthen .
4142
Hillary Clinton (seen Wednesday at Georgetown University) was helping approve Russia's purchase of US uranium production as her foundation received millions from executives tied to the deal .
4143
Alkira is also fitted out with rare local rainforest timbers, Chillagoe marble and an enormous open air theatre with an 84 inch LED TV and surround sound.
4144
'Mr. Tingley, basically you are a monster who has destroyed the innocence of numerous children.'
His crimes span a period of 50 years.
4145
A spokesman said: 'EasyJet has been advised of planned industrial strike action by French air traffic control services on April 8 and government transport workers on April 9.
4146
However, Rodgers insists a drop-off in results is more to do with their own performances than those of their opponents.
4147
Then he came in one night around two in the morning and said, "Obi, I wanna buy two Ferrari 458s," and that's what he said.
4148
Researchers found, almost by accident, that cosmic rays were a suitable probe to measure electric fields within thunderclouds.
‘This worked very well.
4149
She briefly appeared on screen in the U.S as co-presenter for Taste but was stopped from flying to the country after confessing to taking cocaine during that case.
4150
A man shines a torch but his light his overshadowed by the stars above Circeo National Park in Latina, Italy .
And patience is a virtue that cannot be underestimated.
4151
After rushing to the bathroom to vomit, Ms Stevenson brushed her teeth only to find a piece of black shell lodged between her teeth.
4152
Louis van Gaal expects Ryan Giggs to succeed him as Manchester United manager when the time comes.
What I can see is that he is also learning quickly.'
4153
COUNT 3: GUILTY . Possession and use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) during and in relation to a crime of violence, resulting in death; and aiding and abetting (Death penalty charge)
4154
There was still a significant number of young men and women who were still waiting for the right partner though, with five per cent of people declaring that they were still virgins.
4155
The most notable improvement has been among those making less than $36,000 a year, a group that traditionally struggled to get and keep health insurance .
4156
Kovach-Suehn was released from jail Saturday after posting $5,000 bond.
When the 96-year-old recovers enough to be released from the hospital, DCF will place him in a shelter.
4157
Andras Janos Vass, 25, was found guilty of human trafficking and racketeering felonies this week after grooming fellow Hungarians online then keeping them captive in New York City and Miami.
4158
The pictures show the temporary sign erected by the British shortly after the camp was liberated, revealing just part of the grim death toll.
4159
However Melissa never made it to class and her father alerted police to her disappearance when he arrived home from work and she was nowhere to be found .
4160
Robshaw’s worst fears were realised earlier this month when he was snapped on a sunshine break.
‘Being papped is not something we welcomed or wanted,’ said Robshaw.
4161
Manfredi had touched down three times in Wigan's 34-0 win over Catalans Dragons on Sunday and he once more demonstrated his exceptional ability to finish off the Wolves after they had taken the lead for a third time early in the second half.
4162
But Dr O'Dea said the modern Paleo diet does not quite follow the way how Palaeolithic ancestors lived from more than two million years ago.
4163
This shows the poor condition that the Massey Shaw was in before it was restored by a group of volunteers and a trust .
It was the only fire boat to go.
4164
According to the Bakersfield California, local prosecutors considered charging Stringer but dropped the case due to insufficient evidence.
4165
His body was found stashed in a pile of manure at their farm along this road in Attica on Monday .
The couple has lived at the farm for the past four years, property records show.
4166
Another video uploaded to YouTube shows the pet and baby up to similar antics.
Slezak's Facebook page also features photographs of his two favorite ladies.
4167
Meanwhile, Woods has confirmed he will return to the PGA Tour at the Players Championship on May 7.
'I really like what I'm doing, I got my distance back, and everything is good.'
4168
If he plays at the Nou Camp, it would be the 50th consecutive week that the Argentina maestro has done so in the Spanish top flight - dating back to January 11, 2014.
4169
Joe Hart bemoaned one of his 'worst days in a Manchester City shirt' following Sunday's derby thumping by Manchester United.
Manchester City are four points behind rivals United .
4170
The couple was told that the plastic crate broke open after one of the ropes became tangled on something .
'He told me his cage was crushed.'
4171
Lihi Yona filmed the black pup enthusiastically jumping around in time to the squirts of water.
Lihi Yona filmed a black pup enthusiastically jumping around in time to a water fountain .
4172
The Apple Watch Sport (pictured) has high performance' rubber straps and the screen is held in an anodised aluminium case .
In a recent test conducted by repair specialists in Cardiff, the 38mm Sapphire screen remained scratch-free after being subjected to sandpaper and hit with a hammer .
Unhappy:
Waterproof:
4173
With the shouting reciprocated from within, the events soon escalated to violence and the pub's window being kicked and shattered by Childs.
4174
The video has already received more than 2.9million views on Facebook.
Mrs Carey is hoping Rilie will now be invited on to The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
4175
Police Scotland confirmed this morning that the search had now resumed with rescuers describing the weather conditions as 'awful'.
4176
Great Manchester Police Chadderton division revealed a man lodged a complaint that the weather on his holiday was 'too hot'
4177
Robertson celebrates winning in his World Snooker Championship first round match against Wales's Jones .
4178
A group also travelled to the Oyston home near Waddington, Lancashire on Sunday to vent their fury.
And Knight’s apology will only serve to exasperate the problem further.
4179
He wants to be successful.
Young has praised Van Gaal's (right) managerial style and desire to bring back success to the club .
4180
Lord Tebbit has hit out at David Cameron for not being a ‘real man’ with ‘real depth of experience’.
He told the BBC’s Newsnight: ‘I just cannot read Mr Cameron’s mind.
4181
The Spanish striker inadvertently headed a corner at the near post over his own line to pull Malaga back into the game before half-time.
4182
Harry Redknapp described Ferdinand's signing last summer as a 'remarkable coup' for the club .
Ferdinand has shown glimpses of his imperious best for QPR this season .
4183
A couple and their two young children also narrowly avoided an Easter tragedy after a head-on crash with an allegedly drunk driver in NSW's Hawkesbury region.
4184
The revelation comes just two days after the Tories were forced to return a donation of £50,000 from a wealthy hotelier who the American authorities once wanted to extradite to face tax fraud charges.
4185
The Mayweather Boxing Club is a private facility in contrast that is not open to the general public .
Former boxer Nate Jones is also part of Mayweather's ensemble.
4186
'Against Man United he played to stop Fellaini from playing in the box.
Jose Mourinho believes that Zouma could play for Chelsea for at least the next 10 years .
4187
Willian will start on the right and his Brazilian team-mate Oscar may drop out of the starting line up for the clash at QPR.
4188
Srktel believes Gerrard is synonymous with Liverpool and that the midfielder is still one of the game's leading stars.
4189
Walmart will put both the full-time and part-time workers affected by the closures on paid leave for two months as they  try to transfer to another Walmart location.
4190
Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg holds a cod at the Newlyn Fish Market in Cornwall this morning after unveiling his plan to save popular rural areas from the blight of second home owners .
4191
Currently, the lake is littered with thousands of dead fish due to the raw sewage and rubbish within it .
Rio's water quality has become a contentious topic ahead of the 2016 Olympics.
4192
But now the Jamaican sprinter has had to lay off his beloved fast food and eat a 'lot more vegetables', despite confessing that 'he hates them all'.
4193
Thousands of people have taken part in a peace march today, calling for an end to the violence against immigrants in South Africa .
4194
According to the Brazilian taekwondo confederation, its president Carlos Fernandes was 'pleased' to receive Silva's proposal, but many details still must be discussed before his participation in the games can become a reality.
4195
Manny Pacquiao answers questions from the assembled media at his open workout day last week .
Floyd Mayweather is due for his final conference call this Wednesday.
4196
This photo shows a deputy bending down to pick up Bates's dropped gun following the 'accidental' shooting in Tulsa earlier this month.
Suspect:
4197
Two of her colleagues were gunned down on the job in 2012 by the terror group for issuing the vaccine.
Pictured, Nelufar with two members of the team who provide the vaccine .
4198
Rooney netted his 47th England goal in the 4-0 victory against Lithuania at Wembley last week .
Rooney's England tally is only two behind the record of 49, set by Sir Bobby Charlton .
4199
Mr Harris - now aged 47 - is released from bail after providing information to detectives which has progressed the investigation, police say .
4200
The symptoms can last from a few hours to a week after exposure, reports Deseret News.
A person with Aquagenic Urticaria is essentially allergic to water.
4201
Lawyers for the six former drug squad officers accused of racketeering have said the government case is based on 19 lying drug dealers and a rogue ex-cop.
4202
Labour leader Ed Miliband has also had his fair share of awkward moments .
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg is just trying to be one of the kids - but he doesn't quite fit in .
4203
However, this spring it was found the female cat was pregnant - with triplets.
A new male tiger, Jupiter, arrived at the Columbus Zoo on March 19.
4204
After speaking to President Barack Obama (pictured Thursday during the announcement of the agreement) on the phone, he said in a statement: 'A deal based on this framework would threaten the survival of Israel .
4205
Nowhere to go: The James R Barker Lake Freighter is shown trapped in ice in this aerial photo near Whitefish Bay .
Gill added: ‘The ice is very mobile.
4206
Referee: George Clancy (Ireland).
Saracens' experience also tells them Clermont can be beaten.
Barritt believes experience will be crucial.
4207
The dunes have also been known to merge and form so-called 'Y-shaped compound dunes', and the formation of these patterns are caused by the wind and movement of sand.
4208
While investigating, authorities found a fake Facebook account created by Geyen in which he claimed to be a 13-year-old girl to communicate with young boys.
4209
In 2010, Save Our State organized a demonstration in California during which a local city councilman sparked an outrage by referring to himself as a ‘proud racist.
4210
He urged Asian communities to look into 'what might be going on that we don't know about'.
He said: 'I did what any cool, calm future Cabinet minister would do.
4211
‘Wakē uses a parametric speaker (like a laser beam of sound) to deliver focused, soothing sounds that start quietly, and grow louder slowly as the light beam grows brighter,’ according to the device’s Kickstarter page.
4212
Officials said there was no 1, 2 or 3 train service in both directions between Chambers Street and Times Square/42nd Street.
4213
'But then I came to him after the second-half and he said 'without control I can do it also!'
Herrera (centre) netted twice as United ended up beating Villa 3-1 at Old Trafford .
4214
The news comes after a worrying video has appeared online in February exposing a truck driver snorting drugs from behind the wheel of a heavy vehicle before taking to the road.
4215
United would demand £30m if Real try to sign him this summer and Van Gaal has already prepared for the prospect of De Gea leaving as a free agent next year by bringing in former Barcelona keeper Victor Valdes.
4216
Spokesman Kate Smith said: ‘People could lose out on thousands of pounds of their hard-earned savings.’
4217
Now fans are talking about going and helping themselves.
Newcastle, who lost to Liverpool on Monday, have never been the same since Sir Bobby left the club .
4218
The man, who has not been identified, was seen running away from the angry animal before it caught him with one horn, sending him sprawling to the floor .
4219
The other, imagining the Emerald City, capital of the Land of Oz and home to the Wizard, sold for £10,000 .
'When filming ended they were sold by the film studio.
4220
'Great night at #nickiminaj concert.
Alexis Sanchez celebrates with Olivier Giroud after his stunning strike from just outside the penalty area .
4221
The app will also act as a sky high discussion forum where customers on the flight can chat and spark debate in the air creating an onboard community.
4222
Iona Costello, 51, and her daughter Emily, from Greenport, were going into the city when they were last seen on March 30 near their home in the the wealthy seaside village.
4223
Marca (left) and AS were keen to play up to the fact Real Madrid have closed the gap on rivals Barcelona .
Corriere dello Sport were keen to praise the strugglers.
4224
Phillips was a menace on that wing.
Chelsea’s captain has learned to deal with it, but the trip to Loftus Road is possibly as poisonous as it gets for Terry.
4225
Illegal: To keep an alligator of any size in Florida, you need to apply for a license (stock picture)
Gill said he was shocked to discover the laws.
4226
Dark clouds start forming over the city of Soligorsk, Belarus, as the sandstorm sweeps over the city .
Those that did venture outside travelled by torchlight.
4227
'The vast majority of Labour MPs do not believe in any element of deficit reduction.
He also revealed that the new benefit will be denied to EU immigrants to deter low-paid incomers.
4228
I don't want people asking questions.
She said she has suffered depression since she was 14 and had been hospitalised for self harm and attempted suicide.
4229
In the opening scene of the pornographic film a young woman dressed as a school girl walks along the clearly recognisable train station platform.
4230
This old car is barely discernible amidst at the bottom of a heap of rusty, overgrown junk in France, pictured by Dieter in 2013 .
4231
This latest email, sent on Saturday from a dummy account, was 9,000 words long, and detailed why the group kidnapped Huskins, and how they went about taking her from her home.
4232
'I think that in two to three years we will have effective pharmacological solutions based on already approved drugs that will help people remain younger and healthier until other advances in regenerative medicine and gene therapy become available.'
4233
Chief Inspector Katy Woolford said the police had a responsibility to advise potential victims on how to minimise risks .
4234
Donald Tusk, the European Council president, said earlier on Thursday that EU leaders must 'sacrifice some national interests for the common good' by taking part in a 'resettlement' programme.
4235
Tobias said his brother offered little explanation to his disappearance.
'He is happy.
He sounds well.
We were very happy to hear from him.'
4236
Bolton will offer new contracts to Emile Heskey, 37, Eidur Gudjohnsen, 36, and goalkeeper Adam Bogdan, 27.
Both players have apologised to Lennon.
4237
Hironimus later changed her mind, giving way to a long court battle.
Attorneys representing Nebus declined to comment to Daily Mail Online, citing the order.
4238
Despite rubbing shoulders with Madonna, model Stephen James remains very humble .
'It's about a private moment in my life when I needed more balance,' he said.
4239
He said: ‘It was a fun trip.
Two months ago he shared a photo on Reddit that shows him playing Diablo III, with his daughter, Gwyneth Paige, on his lap.
4240
Police said that Kemery, who is from Bridgehampton, started the blaze with his ill-timed cigarette break in the parking lot of the King Kullen supermarket in Eastport.
4241
Those living in London are more likely to opt for a small and lap-sized dog (41 per cent) than a larger retreiver .
4242
The BCFC’s trust director Dean Holtham was quoted by the Birmingham Mail as saying the group was ‘deeply saddened’ to learn of Logan’s death.
The Foreign Office confirmed it was offering help to Logan's family.
4243
'It's unfortunate they believe she's been terribly treated when in fact the review of the medical notes suggests that that's not the case.'
4244
The Afghan Taliban has published a bizarre biography of their 'charismatic' supreme leader Mullah Omar - praising the one-eyed terrorist's 'special' sense of humour and love of grenade launchers.
4245
Dufner and Amanda during happier times after he won the PGA Championship in 2012 .
Dufner married Amanda back in 2012 - but separated in February 2015 .
4246
Graham Dorrans hammered his spot-kick against the underside of the ball and then wasted another opportunity moments later, although he made amends with Norwich’s second goal in injury-time.
4247
MP Jesse Norman is being investigated by police over claims he attempted to 'bribe' voters with chocolate cake, pictured above .
4248
We don’t know about you, but Kylie Jenner is continuing to mesh-merize us with her evolving fashion sense.
Kylie has grown up in the spotlight.
4249
But the so-called 'King of Instagram' has been forced into making a public safety announcement in order to avoid jail after being arrested for placing homemade explosives into a tractor before shooting them.
4250
Victim:
The arrested man was an Algerian national studying computer science in Paris, and was known to the intelligence services.
Statement:
4251
'He has got four games left and all I want is for him to enjoy every single second of it and make sure he enjoys the experience as much as we have benefited from his talent.
4252
I know I am going to die.
Courtney, whose cancer is so rare doctors do not have a name for it, added : 'I look at my future and I see where it ends.
4253
Standing under a red canopy this evening Francis listened to prayers affirming the right of religious freedom.
Good Friday commemorates Jesus' death by crucifixion.
4254
It is unclear whether they had married, although she uses his surname.
Police sources claimed while no suicide note had been found they were aware the girl had been 'unhappy' in recent weeks.
4255
QPR manager Chris Ramsey condemned the behaviour.
’ Jubilant Chelsea celebrations were marred by objects being thrown onto the pitch by the crowd .
'I'm not blaming Robert Green.
4256
'My m8 Robbie Keane having a sing-a-long in the car!
Robbie Keane sings Karma Chameleon iin a video posted on Boy George & the Culture Club's Facebook page .
4257
Gary Teale has hit back at Ronny Deila’s criticism of the St Mirren Park pitch.
‘I was surprised because I think our pitch is the best in the league,’ stated Teale.
4258
Delta's new pet GPS, available for $50 per flight, allows owners to track their pets on a plane via a website .
4259
They are rare and usually only affect people over the age of 50, but they can start anywhere in the body.
Ms Hamilton's was found in the walls of her cervix.
4260
Swazi gold is grown in the tiny South African sovereign state of Swaziland, where the climate and nutrient-rich soil is perfect for growing marijuana.
4261
Video footage shows Corporal James Bass of North Carolina sneaking up behind his son Joshua while he strikes a formal pose in front of a scenic backdrop.
4262
Meanwhile a survey, by teachers' union NASUWT, revealed a disturbing picture of how parents are increasingly using Facebook and Twitter to intimidate staff.
4263
Gabriel says: ‘He wants me to get in there,’ before cautiously walking away from the bear  and stating: ‘He better not break through.’
4264
But organisers were astonished to be told that the gesture would incur a ‘sampling charge’ of £2,500 because the centenary cake has fallen foul of the Hall’s sponsorship rules.
4265
Everyone was upset with the way we performed.
'We worked hard, we pushed the ball well, showed a lot of composure on the ball and created chances.
4266
Police say that Stover hid inside one of the bathroom stalls at Turnmill Bar he allegedly choked and sexually assaulted a young woman as she was trying to leave the restroom .
4267
She enraged Twitter users by saying that 'unhealthy lifestyles' should not be 'facilitated', and now the plus-size industry has spoken out about Jamelia's comments on Loose Women.
4268
A hard-hitting report by BlackRock, the largest fund manager in the world, said yesterday that ‘a soothing outcome for the markets is hard to imagine’ given Labour’s anti-business policies and Tory plans to hold a referendum on Britain’ s membership of the European Union.
4269
Kim Moyes explained the duo's comments on Monday afternoon.
The Presets’ frontman Julian Hamilton recently took part in a candle-lit vigil for Chan and Sukumaran, as part of The Mercy Campaign.
4270
Manchester City are planning to table a mega-bid for Raheem Sterling on the day the transfer window reopens.
4271
Seeing the wreckage up close for the first time since Thursday's storms left some amazed that they survived.
That tornado also injured 22 people.
4272
Lyon returned to the top of the Ligue 1 table after securing a 2-2 draw from a topsy-turvy Rhone Valley derby match against Saint-Etienne at the Stade de Gerland on Sunday night.
4273
The video concludes with an artistic shot of the cows’ reflection as the transfixed herd remain rooted to the spot, as if hypnotised by the sound of the didgeridoo.
4274
On Sunday, Stephanie Scott was at Leeton High School to organise work for her students to do while she was away.
Mr Leeson-Woolley said he last spoke to Ms Scott at 10am on Sunday morning.
4275
(For complicated reasons, I probably like the BA card the best, because if you're flying less than 650 miles, 50,000 miles will get you as many as 11 free flights.)
4276
Israeli defense official Amos Gilad predicted that when Iranian sanctions are dropped, 'they will get rich' and 'will have the power to support the entire network of missiles and rockets'
4277
William Bogard has pleaded not guilty after being charged with attempted murder, assault and vehicle theft .
The preliminary hearing will resume on Monday.
4278
He revealed that a 'human molecule' might contain 375 million atoms of hydrogen, 132 million atoms of oxygen and 85 million atoms of carbon.
4279
A man is on the run after police charged him with faking his own kidnapping in a bizarre incident last fall.
It's unclear why his friend did not cut him down initially.
4280
As part of her plea deal, Dufresne will not have to serve any jail time.
Both Dufresne and Respess were suspended from their jobs without pay following their arrests last fall.
4281
She was bullied at school and began to isolate herself because she was focussed on her work.'
'Charlotte battled with mental health illnesses including anorexia,' she said.
4282
When Yvonne heard the news, instead of expressing sympathy, she mocked Tony telling him: 'You've got cancer, you are going to die.'
4283
‘You can see the success of Glasgow who are sitting top of the PRO12 table and part of that is a result of their investment.
4284
Local streams have been well known for grains of gold of 'significant size' for decades .
Locals said the prospect of finding gold was 'exciting'.
4285
Rodgers tweaked Liverpool, and Gerrard's, shape for a third time at the interval, as the Reds went 4-3-2-1 with Gerrard playing deepest of the midfield three.
4286
At the other end, the hosts passed up a decent chance to all but secure the three points.
Law (left) strikes the ball towards goal as he scores Rangers' fourth goal of the afternoon .
4287
Water-conscious residents have turned to techniques that utilize so-called 'gray water' to help them meet the unprecedented new water-use restrictions imposed by Governor Jerry Brown last week.
4288
Blaze:
It is unknown whether she attended Tuesday's funeral.
The explosion also caused fires at 119, 123 and 125 Second Avenue.
Another victim:
4289
Ben Stokes fell quickly to his right but the ball grounded just in front of him.
The last over before lunch went to Moeen Ali, fit again and recalled in place of James Tredwell.
4290
While David's Bridal offers dresses at double the price, such as this short tank lace bridesmaid dress, which is available in 25 colours for £120 .
4291
It's powerful, poised and emphatic, though far from a winner at the Nou Camp, but it's all the Welshman can do for now as he returns from international duty to a less than appreciative fan base.
4292
Typically, sufferers from cystic fibrosis are not expected to live beyond the age of 17, but Charles has spent his entire life defying this disease.
4293
He also told the ABC he was concerned about the possibility of abuse at Nauru.
Lawyers are fighting to stop the girl being sent back to the island .
4294
The 16-year-old told NBC he believes everyone on the Tulsa force is to blame for his father the April 2 death of his father Eric Harris and says 'they should all go down.'
4295
A huge impact event has been suggested as a possible cause of the mass extinction, based on the examination of grains of 'shocked quartz' and meteorite fragments in Antarctica, but no impact site has been found.
4296
The tragedy comes five months after Australia batsman Phillip Hughes died aged 25 after being hit on the neck by a bouncer in a Sheffield Shield match.
4297
Subs not used: Rose, Wisdom, Baird, McManaman.
Pearson said: ‘This season we have to make sure our destiny remains with our own results as long as possible.
4298
Cruel:
Fido Alert in East Contra Costa County has offered a $1,000 reward for information that leads to whoever caused Fireman’s injuries.
4299
Ozil impressed on international duty as Germany beat Gerogia 2-0 in a Euro 2016 qualifier on Sunday .
The playmaker has been in fine form since returning from injury for Arsenal this year .
4300
Industry commentators believe the Apple Watch will follow the same lines of success as the iPad (pictured) did five years ago .
4301
Karlis had travelled to Scotland to take part in a training course organised by the British Mountaineering Council joining climbers from 26 countries.
4302
Last month it was reported that Mr Hallak was teaching students at his school (pictured) that Islamic State was not the doing of Muslims, but rather a plot against them .
4303
Radwanska has struggled this season and was knocked out in the first round in Stuttgart this week .
The French Open starts on May 24.
4304
The small car-sized spacecraft will plunge directly into the sun's atmosphere approximately four million miles from our star's surface.
4305
Norman police spokesman Captain Tom Easley said: 'The male had killed his girlfriend using a knife and then turned the weapon on himself'
4306
Ben Cousins was arrested three times in two weeks at the end of March, following a slew of erratic events .
4307
'Chaddah is a bully who had to be told he couldn't take the law into his own hands.'
Chaddah charged at Mr Paton, catching the taller man side-on and knocking him over.
4308
Newcastle supporters have also been asked to take part in peaceful protests outside Sports Direct stores .
4309
Would you feel better about gauging on junk food if it were dressed up like a gourmet feast?
Seen here is a corn dog with packet ham, Spongebob Squarepants macaroni and ketchup .
4310
Thailand's Dechawat Poomjaeng, who upset Neil Robertson in the opening round in Beijing, pulled out an impressive 5-0 win against England's Jack Lisowski to continue his challenge, but it was the end of the line for Marco Fu, who was edged out 5-4 by Welshman Jamie Jones.
4311
Our relationship was crushed.'
, he admitted Chelsea and Manchester City as well a host of top European clubs were interested in acquiring his services .
4312
Chelsea playmaker Eden Hazard insists his side are close to getting their hands on the Premier League title .
Hazard felt Chelsea's win could have been more convincing.
4313
Some owners of the Apple Watch have found that it malfunctions if worn on tattooed wrists (pictured).
'Skin perfusion is one,' it says.
4314
Beverly Park Circle, California -$16.238 million .
The houses are just feet away from Biscayne Bay and the exclusive community is just a short distance from Miami .
4315
It continues: 'At the hospital, Mrs. Mojeron and her family were not allowed to see Hector until he was dead.'
No weapons were found at the scene.
4316
The 58-year-old Italian's departure comes six days after Leeds' assistant head coach Steve Thompson was suspended.
I'm not there so I don't know why.
4317
The building is supposedly haunted by spirits .
Residence:
Macabre:
Ghosts supposedly inhabit The Osborne, according to some of its residents .
4318
He spent the rest of the battle leading a series of charges by British light cavalry formations, and had eight or nine horses shot from under him.
4319
'This season we have probably had more injuries than ever, so sometimes you learn other things when you are out.
Arteta believes Arsenal can sustain their challenge.
4320
She pleaded guilty to three charges of fraud.
Nigel Hedley, defending, said Lillico was hit by financial problems after a difficult divorce.
4321
His rescuer attached him to an oxygen mask and freed him from the stricken vessel – but sadly he was the only survivor of the shipwreck.
4322
A stunning bride rode to her wedding on the horse she saved from dying of starvation.
A stunning bride rode to her wedding on the horse she saved from dying of starvation .
4323
Sir Bruce Forsyth has said that sometimes it can be 'more cruel to do nothing' than to let someone die, as he spoke out today in support of assisted dying .
4324
The complaint was made by match citing commissioner Eugene Ryan.
Marcelo Bosch celebrates after his last-gasp kick sent Saracens through to the Champions Cup semi-finals .
4325
Ben Gibson, pictured at the age of 15, has decided to retire from cricket just four years after his debut .
'This was a difficult decision to make,' the 19-year-old said.
4326
Louis could be heard narrating from behind the camera as he filmed his bandmate on their way to a One Direction concert in Lima, Peru.
Joint lit.
4327
A win would also see them become the first club to beat United five times in a row in the Premier League.
'United are a big team that like to play - especially with Van Gaal.
4328
The woman was 'weaving, accelerating and slowing down,' according to a tweet by the official CHP Southern Division Twitter.
4329
Liverpool singer and X Factor star Rebecca Ferguson will give a short performance during Ladies Day .
Racegoers can also buy tickets at the gate on Thursday and Friday.
4330
‘The importance of the mission is absolutely critical.
’ The couple launched the crowdfunding page in a bid to track the numbers of kangaroos in the area .
4331
Not bad:
'However, they are still helpful when you want to classify faces by these attributes.
'However, they are still helpful when you want to classify faces by these attributes.
4332
A playbill from Our American Cousin from the night President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated on April 14, 1865 is shown on display at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn .
4333
'It is important that sellers in the market recognise that consumers are entitled to reliable, truthful and accurate information,' he said.
4334
And when Chesterfield High School in Crosby, Merseyside, stopped the payments in 2011, he attempted to sue them, claiming discrimination because of his 'philosophical belief' in public service.
4335
'Cunningham family members said in October 2013 that they wish to see all investigations into British Army killings, including that of John Pat, being investigated by an independent body.'
4336
It was the second time within a year that the rider suffered a similar injury.
It is the second bad injury to an Irish jockey this month.
4337
The company was fined $60,000 and was subject to Department of Health workers auditing its staff, but the hospital has been found of continuing to operate with poorly sanitised instruments, reports ABC.
4338
Next time, maybe it will be a Caramel Wafer.
Despite not starting for the Bhoys, Griffiths looks content as he tucks into the biscuit on Good Friday .
4339
Javier Pastore celebrates after scoring Argentina's winner in Tuesday night's 2-1 success over Ecuador .
It was Paraguay coach Ramon Diaz's second match in charge.
4340
At least three people poured gasoline on a car and lit it on fire at a South Los Angeles gas station .
Surveillance video of the incident is being used in the investigation.
4341
Brown will have played just six of his club’s last 19 games after sitting out of the coming weekend, and his England team-mates Joe Marler and Chris Robshaw have featured in only eight of the last 18.
4342
Baron the German Shepherd was captured in a video using the toilet after he began learning the impressive skill a few weeks ago.
4343
The plane began to plunge after it was struck by lightning, but autopilot ignored the pilot’s commands to climb and tried to crash the plane into the sea.
4344
It is understood that European safety chiefs had concerns about Germanwings' safety procedures in the weeks before the crash.
4345
Khubaib allegedly offered another girl £60, telling her: ‘You make me happy, I'll give you money.’
The teenager was targeted by him when she was just 14 in Peterborough.
4346
Miss Brooks said the argument was quickly resolved, but the Stirling Castle event was cancelled due to bad weather and the pair took a taxi back to the hotel about 10.30pm
4347
Doug Hughes said the journey from Virginia to the U.S. Capitol was a 'huge thrill' as he spoke to Good Morning America on Monday morning.
4348
A dramatic virtual environment has been created using a headset that shows how passengers would survive a plane crash landing on water.
4349
'He hasn’t scored a ton since.
At tea, Anderson’s father, Michael, spoke to TMS about the making of England’s leading wicket taker.
4350
‘The funny thing is that I have never spoken to Nichola properly.
Adam was recently was filmed on his rounds in Exeter trying out some solo free-style steps before approaching a customer's door .
4351
Help for Heroes has launched a fundraising drive to keep World War II veteran Robert Clark in his own home after a London council refused to pay for his ongoing care.
4352
'This is such a traumatizing event for this girl.
The sheriff's office said it has encountered incidents like this before through leads found on social media.
4353
Fans chose this emerald belt as the one which  will adorn the winner of the fight of the century on May 2 .
4354
Holder is first and foremost a fast bowler but he has already been made one-day captain by West Indies and now they can regard him, as Sir Viv Richards believes, a genuine all-rounder who can lead his maligned side forward.
4355
Liverpool fell, but Liverpool climbed again and here they are.
From this point last season, City took five wins and a draw from their last six games to take the title.
4356
'The Hour Record is a holy grail for cyclists,' Wiggins said.
In June, Wiggins will hope to race in front of a sell-out crowd at London's Olympic Velodrome .
4357
It added: 'Trevor is a talented comedian with a bright future at Comedy Central.'
One said: 'Jon Stewart, born Leibowitz, won't be happy about these highly antisemitic tweets.'
4358
Becky's heartbroken mother Tani Watts said she fears coming face-to-face with Anjie Galsworthy, (pictured with Becky's father Darren) whose son is accused of the teenager's murder .
4359
A spokesman for the office said the mistake was made when a pensions office worker accidentally copied a customer number into the form, rather than the amount outstanding.
4360
Writing for Total Film magazine, the experts say many characters in other top films would also have struggled to escape alive from their injuries.
No human could have survived such repeated trauma, says Dr Shiels.
4361
The sheep shearing town of Errowanbang, near Orange, saw its school enrolments increase 300 per cent after  residents started leasing properties to new families for next to nothing.
4362
'I'm Japanese through and through, but in Japan if you look "foreign" you are often not accepted as Japanese.
Her father says she is 'proud of both' her heritages .
4363
Actor Ryan Reynolds (above) was the victim of a hit-and-run in a hotel parking lot, according to his publicist and Vancouver police .
4364
Iris Eytan, Holmes former attorney, believed he was 'absolutely out of his mind'.
'He was under the influence of something, and I believe it was mental illness,' she said.
4365
Sevilla appear to be his favourite opponents, with Ronaldo netting an astonishing 18 times against them since signing for Madrid in 2009.
4366
Two college campus police officers in Dallas have been placed on administrative leave after shocking video footage surfaced of them harassing a group of four students and arresting one after first hitting him.
4367
Wenger admits he has been impressed by the work-rate of both Bellerin and defensive midfielder Francis Coquelin, who were each drafted into the first-team as cover for injury, but are now an integral part of the side.
4368
Rotor Volgograd celebrate after their surprise UEFA Cup triumph against Manchester United in 1995 .
4369
Harvard also told other local TV networks he believed Sutton had a knife.
Harvard said he called 911 while driving to report the incident.
4370
Fibre: 4.8g Sodium: .
'As many Australians eat bread on a daily basis, it is imperative that our choice of bread is gold standard, and this means grain bread,' she added.
4371
Oldham Athletic have signed Ronaldo.
The man in question is 16-year-old Ronaldo Brown who has joined the Latics after being released by Liverpool.
4372
Konopelski was responding to a report about an opossum (above) on the tracks near an Illinois train station .
Bi-State Wildlife wrote: 'We have no words.
4373
She started paying in February and planned to pay off her dress by July - around three months before her wedding - giving her time to make alterations.
4374
Above, passengers in Manchester airport who were delayed .
She added: 'In the meantime, Qatar Airways arranged for the transportation of the passengers to Manchester.'
4375
Manchester City were just one victory away from equalling their best run of eight straight wins earlier this season but they couldn't quite manage to repeat the feat they managed between December 2013 and January 2014.
4376
But, in the absence of help from authorities, he said he now believed it was up to parents to try to ‘take control’ to help their children.
4377
Page wanted to make sure he protected his property, which includes this imposing fireplace below a medieval scene, so hired a team of experts to help him rebuff Williams' original plans .
4378
Police found a body, that they believe to be the high school teacher, on the night before she was die to wed her partner of five years .
4379
Whether Mike Ashley is here in the future or not, there's a danger that you are turning all these people off Newcastle United and going to the match, especially with the rival attraction of being able to watch it in your local pub.'
4380
Arsenal were heavily linked with him before he left Sevilla, though the versatile player bought out his contract and opted for Monaco.
4381
Halsey said the English game would be a ‘laughing stock’ over the decision to ignore Clattenburg, one of only two English referees in the UEFA elite ranks — for the final between Aston Villa and Arsenal on May 30.
4382
A man has been rescued twice from Cockle Bay Wharf (pictured)
Emergency services are regularly called to Darling Harbour to rescue people from the treacherous waters.
4383
Budget: Hardys Siegersdorf Riesling (Australia) RRP$11.50 .
Mid-range: Wills Domain Semillon Sauvignon Blanc (Australia) RRP$17.80 .
SALMON .
4384
Stoke City (4-2-3-1): Begovic 6.5; Cameron 6, Shawcross 6, Wollscheid 5.5, Wilson 6 (Pieters 49, 5.5); Whelan 6 (Ireland 67), Nzonzi 6.5; Moses 6.5 (Diouf 44, 7), Adam 6.5, Arnautovic 7.5; Walters 6.5.
4385
But the incident came to a climactic end when a man passing by produced a gun and fired a shot.
Police have hailed the passer-by as a hero for possibly saving the woman's life.
Police have hailed the passer-by as a hero for possibly saving the woman's life when he fired a shot .
He picked up speed.
4386
Ms Hollis, who recently won a bronze medal at a regional Strongest Woman competition, has also set up a Facebook support group for people with mental illness to share her experience.
4387
'I could even work with a younger coach to help them and they could then take over as manager in a year or two, to help build the club up; that is something which would interest me but we will have to wait and see what comes along.'
4388
Police released a video of Barway riding a bus after school.
'Unfortunately, we have reason to believe that Barway's father has not been completely truthful with us.'
4389
Ronald Anderson, 48, was arrested after he kidnapped a woman, shot a Census Bureau guard and led police on a car chase on before authorities cornered him in an exchange of gunfire that left the suspect and a police officer wounded .
4390
And Simeone, who takes his side to the Bernabeu to face local rivals Real Madrid on Wednesday, believes the failure of English clubs in Europe this season should kick the country's top-flight into gear.
4391
‘I haven’t fought in the UK in five years.
I’ll fight anywhere in the UK.
‘CB Dollaway is a very good athlete.
‘I’ve never lost two fights back to back.
4392
The National Trust has replaced antique furniture with beanbags at one of its historic homes in an ‘experiment’ which has enraged heritage experts.
4393
This weekend's video comes as New York City has targeted speeding and reckless motorists in a bid to eliminate traffic deaths .
4394
Schumacher will need time to make his way as a driver, according to team manager Frits van Amersfoort .
'He is making progress appropriate to the severity of the situation.
4395
Ricky Gervais has led an online charge against 'trophy hunters' after posting a picture of an Extreme Huntress winner lying next to a dead giraffe and smiling.
4396
A Muslim group with links to extremists has claimed it can influence up to 30 seats at the election, it has been reported.
4397
'I really wasn't comfortable with people staying inside the house so I guess that's why HomeCamp appealed to me more,' he said.
4398
The winger has found game time under Louis van Gaal hard to come by and could choose to leave the club in the summer in search of first-team football.
4399
Floyd Mayweather performs at a media workout with his uncle Roger on the pads in Las Vegas .
Marvin Hagler believes Mayweather lacks class and puts people to sleep with his performances .
4400
Scientists from the University of Connecticut warned that one in six animals are at risk of extinction, particularly in regions where shrinking habitats and barriers to migration compound the problem.
4401
His friend Jamal Maslow, who fell off the roof first, broke his coccyx after landing on the corner of one of the steps.
Mr Polyakov was unconscious .
4402
The woman was taken to Basildon Hospital as a precaution.
'A red Peugeot was reported to be driving the wrong way on the London-bound carriageway.
4403
This is likely to be the midfielder's last season playing in the competition as he continues to be linked with a summer move to Qatari club Al Sadd, with reports in Spain suggesting he will sign a three-year deal.
4404
We won every game except the draw against Arsenal.
A great team.
I just need three more points to celebrate.’
‘Chelsea are worthy champions.’
4405
'John' who is reportedly a builder posted this advert in his local newsagents, it has since gone viral after it was spotted by a passer by .
4406
'For better for worse, it's only a curse, so open your wallet…and fill up her purse.'
He told Perth Now the performance was received far more positively than he anticipated.
4407
He said: 'I think it goes right to the heart of the election campaign.
Jeremy Paxman grilled David Cameron over the number of zero-hours contracts in the UK workforce .
4408
The group, LPAC, launched Lesbians4Hillary on Monday to support the former First Lady's bid to become the nation's first female president.
4409
In an attempt to woo the locals, Mr Cameron ventured: 'When you are in Devon you do the jam and the cream in a different order to Cornwall, is that right?'
4410
After only a handful appearances for the Cottagers, his talent was clear and Smalling signed for Manchester United one year later.
4411
The Countess of Wessex Sophie wore a feathered hat to the traditional Easter service at St George's Chapel in Windsor Castle with Monica Vinader earrings .
4412
Wally the wallaby going in for his regular baths .
For people interested in owning a kangaroo, Ms Nellist said she would definitely recommend it to everyone .
4413
Nico’s long-term girlfriend turned wife.
He speaks five languages.
‘I had it easy if you think of people who have money struggles in their lives.
4414
An associate dean of students at the University of Virginia said Wednesday a widely discredited Rolling Stone article caused her professional and personal harm by portraying her as insensitive and unresponsive to an alleged victim of a gang rape.
4415
The medical consequences have been utterly traumatic.'
'This personal catastrophe has been brought about fully by those moments of madness in your driving.
4416
His lawyer added that the report was largely based on claims made by a man who was terminated from the department seven years ago, at which point Bates had only been there a few months.
4417
Authorities said the home was covered in debris, including dog feces and bottles of urine .
The mess was said to have included mold and piles of trash that reached the ceiling.
4418
Mrs Clinton will hit the campaign trail again today in New Hampshire, where she'll hold a round table at a family-owned business this afternoon.
4419
‘I’ve played in two semi-finals at Hampden and I have won two,’ he points out.
‘Inverness will come down and make it difficult for us.
‘All of the goals were my favourites.
4420
Obviously I'm going to be a better team-mate to him because he's on my team.
'I'm in Hawaii surfing, got the kids surfing in the ocean and they are talking about something else.
4421
Scorer(s): Dorrans 9, Hooper 90+ .
The visitors were incensed they did not get a penalty when Russell Martin's cross hit Dean Moxey on the hand.
4422
'It takes a long time before you see sunlight poking through the dark fog but never does the pain go as it's so connected to the love.'
4423
A man has allegedly crashed his car into a house full of people and attempted to set it on fire before stabbing a man to death.
4424
'When Paul subsequently attempted to arrange a date, via phone calls and text message, to discuss with Jason how we could look to assist, Jason did not respond, nor did he to another enquiry from Kick It Out.'
4425
The site also has more complicated options for those who have time on their hands and want to experiment.
One courgette: 89p per 500g .
.
4426
The other the spot kick they did, followed by a red card for Craig Gordon.
A former Bairns captain, he was manager of the club in 2009 when they lost to Rangers at Hampden.
4427
Renowned venue:
Dated equipment: Most of the building's machinery has been languishing for years since the venue's unfortunate closure .
4428
Wayne Rooney leaps onto Fellaini's back after United take the lead through the big Belgian, who has had an excellent renaissance recently .
4429
'Man kills his computer': 'Investigation revealed a resident was fed up with fighting his computer for the last several months,' said the police statement, entitled 'Man Kills His Computer.'
4430
Narconon claims it is a non-religious, non-profit, non-medical . rehabilitation program with patients around the world.
'No President was born or died there.
4431
A move would see him follow the route of Cesc Fabregas, who also left Barca before ever playing a first-team game.
4432
Mid-sea rescue:
The crew was ordered to put on immersion suits and abandon the schooner, according to a press release from the Coast Guard.
4433
Some mourners appeared to be more interested in filming the sexy dancers rather than remembering their departed friend as they vied for the best position to take photos and videos on their smart phones.
4434
But Jeremy Clarkson will not face prosecution over the incident which got him sacked from Top Gear .
Oisin Tymon told police he did not wish to press charges against Mr Clarkson .
4435
’ Grealish, who wears children’s shinpads and socks rolled down, won two free-kicks for his team through dribbling with the ball.
4436
Wiggins left everything on the road as he attempted to bow out in glorious fashion, but was unable to hold on .
4437
According to the prosecution, the former executive had argued with his wife over his . medications on the morning of the crash, WMUR reported.
4438
Andy Murray kisses his new girlfriend Kim Sears in the crowd after winning his first ATP World Tour title in San Jose in February 2006 .
4439
John Helm was commentating on Bradford City’s game against Lincoln City when the fire broke out and still struggles to listen to his description of that fatal day.
4440
Eckersley begun his career at the Red Devils but after failing to make an impact in Manchester, he rejected the offer of a new contract and signed for Premier League newcomers Burnley.
4441
She told the newspaper that local airport officials identified four planes flying overhead around the time she made the discovery.
4442
With her dyed black hair, she now lays claim to the title of the Romanian Kim Kardashian.
Alexandra also uses her suggestive shots as a vehicle for her life coaching advice.
4443
Ramsey arrives for Friday's pre-match press conference as QPR prepare to host Chelsea at Loftus Road .
It’s not something we want to highlight in football.
4444
Another photo of the 49-year-old after he was detained was released by the court.
Knight's attorney's say he was trying to flee and ambush.
4445
Tipton left a suicide note.
She was shot at 'intermediate' range, the report says--meaning close enough to cause powder burns but not point blank .
4446
A 15-year-old boy was also shot and later died at the hospital.
However a local alderman suggested that the shooting was carried out in revenge of the child's death .
4447
New attraction:
Making waves:
The indoor SeaPlex activity area (the largest of its kind at sea) has bumper cars, a roller disco and circus school.
4448
Neighbors described him as an angry man who had frequent confrontations over parking or loud music, sometimes with a gun holstered at his hip.
4449
Fire Marshall Brian Taylor told NBC News that multiple members of local law enforcement descended on the scene and a massive manhunt was underway for the suspected shooter.
4450
Rooney has enjoyed a good record against Manchester City since he joined United in 2004.
Wayne Rooney knows Manchester United will be playing for 'pride' against rivals Manchester City .
4451
Bayern, who are top of the Bundesliga with eight games left and through to the German Cup last eight, face Porto in the Champions League quarter-finals later this month.
4452
Now the siren call is Pacquiao in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
After waiting and waiting for Floyd Mayweather, Amir Khan could be set to face Manny Pacquiao .
4453
Andrew Chan, pictured aged 21, and Myuran Sukumaran, 24, pictured during their first trial in October of 2005, were both attracted to drug smuggling by the promised riches, after being disillusioned by their jobs .
4454
She will be admitted to the Great Ormond Street Hospital later this month for an operation to fit glass eyes.
The couple also want to raise awareness of the condition.
4455
The U.S. study supports previous research which has shown that taking SSRI antidepressants during pregnancy increases a woman’s risk of having a child with the developmental disability.
4456
During sentencing, Baxter called the cheating 'pervasive.'
SENTENCE: One year in prison, four years probation, 1,000 hours of community service and a $1,000 fine.
4457
The three kids have had the parents of classmates reach out and offer places to stay and clothing.
The fire injured 19 and killed two people.
4458
Around 100,000 pupils a year do not pass the English and maths tests before they leave primary school (file picture)
‘Labour has a better plan for education.
4459
210,000
Mercedes-Maybach S600 - Cost: £140,000 .
But following the fight with Pacquiao, he'll have plenty of cash, and time, to add to his collection.
4460
This, remember, is a man who played as a central defender in a Champions League final against Manchester United.
This season, Toure has not been at his best.
4461
But Bolt said he felt 'let down' by the American sprinter, and is not looking forward to competing against a man he used to respect.
3=. Tyson Gay - Berlin 2009 - 9.69 .
4462
He said Microsoft has struggled with a 'chicken-and-egg' problem, in which developers have been reluctant to build mobile apps for Windows because relatively few people use Windows phones and tablets.
4463
An online petition has also been set up calling for the council to increase its funding, which has also gained almost 170,000 signatures.
4464
'It’s a bit stupid.
Denying claims that she has ever had plastic surgery, she encouraged youngster not to be afraid 'to experiment' with their looks.
4465
Paleontologistsat the University of Alberta examined a pair of fossils found in Mongolia, which were first described in 2001.
4466
The palace also announced that Prince Harry, who is currently on deployment with the Australian Army, will briefly return to the UK this weekend to present the winners’ medals at Sunday’s London Marathon and, if all goes to plan, meet his new niece or nephew.
4467
Mrs Fairhead suggested that ‘frontline’ staff should bear responsibility for breaching the bank’s policies, during her grilling by the public accounts committee.
4468
Images show the vast sandstorm sweeping its way across Saudi Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates and reaching as far east as India and Pakistan over a period of seven days.
4469
A 'Way of the Cross' procession makes its way from Brooklyn to Lower Manhattan on Good Friday in New York .
Firefighter John Bartlett holds the cross as the procession reaches Lower Manhattan .
4470
He added that the company had received no complaints from the 50 countries where the weapon is used but vowed to assist with the UK review.
4471
However, other sources from the show say that Kim was doing a better job than ever of keeping her addiction under control.
4472
,’ he said.
A photo of Roy and Wright showed them eating food and keeping warm in state police coats after the rescue.
‘They're walking. ...
4473
The German field marshal invited the British officer to dine with him in a gesture of military camaraderie.
During the meal, Gambier-Parry complained that a German soldier had taken his hat.
4474
Aaron Taylor-Johnson was just 19 when he met wife Sam, then 42, on the set of Nowhere Boy in 2009 in which he played the young John Lennon and she directed him.
4475
Shwood Canby Wayfarer Sunglasses at Zappos .
Davina Kullar looks visibly upset during her honeymoon with her new husband Sean Varricchio .
4476
In a gushing newspaper feature, the Duchess of Cambridge’s younger sister described how the smoked meat was served in a ‘wonderfully convivial atmosphere’ at the Juvet Landscape Hotel in north-west Norway.
4477
He is shown shaking hands, which Cubandebate said occurred 'for hours,' with Venezuelans in Havana who had come for solidarity events.
4478
A couple and their two young children also narrowly avoided an Easter tragedy after a head-on crash with an allegedly drunk driver in NSW's Hawkesbury region.
4479
Chief Mike Nelsen, Brigham City Police Department told Fox that when police arrived, Keltsie was found dead in the living room with stab wounds.
4480
‘The better players were with their national teams.
Like van Dijk, his coach Deila also took a holiday ahead of Friday night’s clash with St Mirren in Paisley and the final stretch of the domestic season.
4481
They will now face Juventus in the Coppa final on June 7.
Lazio will try to win for the eighth consecutive game in Serie A this weekend.
4482
Enjoy celebrating on the roof terrace, which holds up to 300 people .
The bi-level penthouse, inspired by Vivienne Westwood, is opening on May 18 at $25,000 a night .
4483
Prince Abdul swapped his gold wedding suit for ceremonial military dress, embellished with diamond epaulettes and collar.
4484
Hinton's defense lawyer wrongly thought he had only $1,000 to hire a ballistics expert to try to rebut the prosecution evidence, according the court opinion.
4485
At City, Pellegrini has been rather more stubborn.
United will spend heavily on key positions such as central defence and centre forward and also buy a right back.
4486
Both sides started strongly, but it was the Sounders' Lamar Neagle had the first chance of the game after nine minutes, flicking on from a cross that was tipped over the crossbar by Jaime Pendeo.
4487
The video was released on April 20, which is regarded by many smokers as the national day to get high .
Sometimes it can be mixed with more dangerous substances.
4488
On Monday, Suggs and Kangas pleaded guilty to three counts of felony child neglect in relation to their children, who consequently lack social skills and are fearful of closed doors, according to NBC.
4489
'No good cop should watch that video without a wince,' NYPD Police Chief Bill Bratton said at a press conference announcing Cherry was being placed on modified duty.
4490
An image of a starving Armenian orphan taken by John Elder.
He also painted a heartrending picture of the nightmare he witnessed using his camera.
4491
Ferdinand's brother Rio was injured for Sunday's match.
Terry's combative encounter with Charlie Austin attracted the attention of referee Andre Marriner .
4492
The network is designed to let users meet one another online to make friends and form relationships without being judged for their habit or views.
4493
But shows such as Eastenders, pictured, have lost viewers thanks to the rise of the internet .
The BBC originally appointed IT firm Siemens to implement the scheme.
4494
3) Sydney Opera House, Sydney New South Wales, 134,641 photos .
17) The Big Banana, Coffs Harbour New South Wales, 2,404 photos .
4495
US Open champion Martin Kaymer is in the group behind world No 1 McIlroy, with Brandt Snedeker and Houston Open winner JB Holmes.
4496
Hartson admitted to having a gambling problem that he faced up to after beating cancer .
'I virtually begged for a second chance at life.
4497
Jeremy Clarkson last night launched into a bizarre rant about being sacked from the BBC, saying the upside meant he could now swear without being reprimanded.
4498
Young women can still get cheaper car insurance than young men despite sex equality laws, an economist warned yesterday.
4499
examined, but Bukowski said Taylor's history of violence and previous escape attempts didn't necessarily single him out for stricter security measures.
4500
After writing in secret for 20 years while working as a factory worker, shop assistant and youth worker, she eventually joined a writers' group at the Phoenix Theatre in Leicester when she was in her 30s.
4501
He then scored his first goal for Poland four days later in a match against Canada.
Rybus impressed during Poland's 1-1 draw with Republic of Ireland in Dublin last month .
4502
Dr Shahinian said he feared the tumour could be cancerous.
Pineal tumours are those that affect the pineal gland in the brain.
4503
A Russian woman indundated with vicious and homophobic messages for running a support group for LGBT teenagers, has publicly shamed her trolls by posting their identities online.
4504
As United slumped to a first derby defeat in 11 years, the loss at Dens Park saw Jackie McNamara’s team make it 10 matches without a win.
4505
According to court papers filed in Amol Gupta's lawsuit, the young professional joined ZogSports' kickball league in April 2013.
Famous player:
4506
'I never expected to be out again so quickly but I can't wait,' Brook said.
Brook will fight  Gavin (pictured) during an action-packed pay-per-view show in London next month .
4507
PETA’s Senior Vice President Dan Mathews told ThinkProgress that the food he saw and tasted during a tour of the food factory plant last month was healthy.
4508
Police in Florida were forced to restrain a 20-year-old woman in the early hours of Saturday after a fight broke out involving 'multiple individuals'.
4509
Victoria's adult journals were published during her lifetime but it is the first time her childhood story has been made public.
4510
Real Madrid are keeping tabs on Liverpool contract rebel Raheem Sterling.
Zidane (left, pictured with Real Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti) has said Real are monitoring Sterling .
4511
'But he also conveys the alert mind ticking away behind the stuttering words and the twitchy, obsessive behaviour.
Sienna said: 'We go to the country.
4512
He said his bizarre habit began after the breakdown of a relationship.
It was only once Mr Almond overcame his boxer addiction that he felt comfortable chatting about it with his friends.
4513
He believes he was saved by Jesus Christ watching over him .
She added that while paramedics and firefighters worked to release him, the driver 'got out of the badly damaged car unaided'.
4514
Removing the saltwater changes the underground pressure.
'It is only Texas state regulators and lawmakers who are living in denial.'
4515
During a TV debate, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy and Tory leader Ruth Davidson challenged Ms Sturgeon to come clean on her plans for Scotland .
4516
Bastian Schweinsteiger is one of a number of players ruled out of Bayern's German Cup clash .
'We only have 16 players available for Wednesday's game.
4517
Of course you still get players who want to enjoy themselves but there has to be a cut-off point.
When I see Jack play it’s no surprise that he is full of confidence.
4518
Ms Weatherill's 24-a-day habit meant she was drinking 1.92g of caffeine every day.
Ms Weatherill's 24-a-day habit meant she was drinking 1.92g of the drug every day.
4519
Fofana is tackled during the European Rugby Champions Cup  match between Clermont and Northampton .
'The top French teams are very, very good.
4520
The PSG players train on the Nou Camp pitch, ahead of a task their manager called 'practically impossible'
He is in good form.'
4521
For a few hundred dollars, one can be purchased online from various sites and delivered to your door .
'I certainly wouldn't recommend doing it to yourself at home,' she said.
4522
She meets the British PM once a week and 'regularly speaks' to those elsewhere .
Patriotic: The Queen, here of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, meeting children in Hampshire .
4523
The pair both also eat a huge dog bowl full of specialist rabbit food every day, and a bale of hay a week.
Jeff's best friend is my other pet, a boxer dog called Kay.'
4524
Toure, pictured with Vincent Kompany, will be offered a new deal by Manchester City in the summer .
4525
The scientists now believe the cone snail shells, which come from the northern Dominican Republic, include 13 entirely new species.
Injected into water, it also reduced the movements of fish larvae.
4526
'The important thing to take away from this research is that money should not be a taboo subject within a relationship.
4527
UFC light-heavyweight Jon Jones is currently wanted as a suspect in connection with a hit-and-run accident on Sunday morning, amid reports police found marijuana in his car.
4528
The pup has made quite a name for himself with his poor catching skills.
Slow-motion footage shows him licking his lips and enthusiastically leaping up to catch the treat .
4529
Yet this did not feature in the Popplewell Inquiry, which held its investigation only three weeks after the fire.
The book is released on April 16.
4530
Her ex-partner, Mokthar Hosseiniamraei, stood accused of murder during a hearing at Parramatta Local Court in January.
4531
Midfielder Ian Black is one of those likely to leave and is attracting interest from new Wigan boss Gary Caldwell.
I want him to be involved.
4532
Only Kurtes was replaced, by referee Kateryna Zora.
England are awarded a penalty during their European U19 Women's Championships qualifier on Saturday .
4533
Patan was swept into a classroom and then escorted out of the building after the shooting.
He said that another teacher then helped him hold the teenager down.
4534
The boutique room in which we stay for three nights is in the resort's hotel.
We wander down, and the view is breathtaking – sea-carved cliffs jut out around a long, wide beach.
4535
Exam board officials yesterday unveiled a draft syllabus for 14 to 16-year-olds which they said would ‘make content more contemporary’.
4536
Memphis Depay had a secret meeting with Manchester United on Wednesday as the club look to tie up a move for the PSV Eindhoven winger.
4537
Jessa's baby will be the sixth grandchild for the Duggars.
Then she miscarried while taking birth control, she has said.
'We are still making plans,' she said.
4538
'I will only make promises I can keep.
Writing exclusively for the Daily Mail, he said he understood people’s ‘fears and worries’ about immigration.
4539
There has been a surge in bets after the recent warm weather, and William Hill has 8/1 odds that the temperature will exceed 100F (37.8C) this year.
4540
At first the driver lets the radio take command and Pavarotti’s distinctive voice can be heard from within side the cab.
4541
It follows last year’s record price hike of 17.4 per cent in the capital.
Forecasts show house prices across the UK will rise at a fraction of last year’s frenetic pace.
4542
And after Mayweather was almost two hours late for his workout, Pacquiao has promised to be on time - and you can watch it here from 11pm.
4543
A representative of Mr. Sambora said there was no truth in Nikki Lund's claims.
Sambora is now dating Australian guitarist Orianthi despite a 26-year age difference.
4544
So in terms of personality he is obviously thick-skinned and that's why I say it won't affect him, and it won't affect us.'
4545
Tom Ince (centre) is currently on loan at Derby from Premier League side Hull City and has been in fine form .
Subs not used: Forsyth, Ward, Sammon, Roos .
4546
Clippers point guard Chris Paul's 22 points, including six three-pointers, led Los Angeles over the injury-depleted Phoenix Suns 112-101 in LA's final regular-season game before the playoffs.
4547
Once the dog reaches the other side of the road, it makes its way over a muddy verge.
As the canine scampers along, his passenger holds tightly to a leash .
4548
Michelle said she followed him to his nearby home, where he ran inside before coming outside again to confront her.
4549
A 67-kilogram woman who ate only four of these snack sized treats would need to vigorously walk for around 40 minutes before the guilt, and the calories melted away.
4550
At least that's what one Sydney woman, caught out in this week's super storm, is hoping.
The 'Love Call' notes are posted at traffic lights on Sydney's George Street near Australia Square .
4551
Jack Wilshere was back in the squad, an unused substitute at Wembley after five months out, and Mathieu Debuchy played for the first time since dislocating his shoulder in January.
4552
Jordan took a stunning slip catch off Tredwell to dismiss West Indies vice-captain Kraigg Brathwaite, who claimed after play that he thought Anderson ' looked tired'.
4553
It’s not right to compare him to Tiger Woods.
’ But the toughest opponent McIlroy could face in future might not come on the course, but from the voice within.
4554
Blackburn midfielder John O'Sullivan (right) is ineligible to play in their FA Cup fifth round replay vs Liverpool .
'We sent John away to help his development.
4555
Szczesny is expected to line up in goal for Arsenal in Saturday's FA Cup semi-final against Reading at Wembley, and Seaman believes the Poland international can make the number one jersey his own once more.
4556
Commuters told of their shock after witnessing the accident, which happened shortly before 9am today .
His face was covered in blood.'
Poor guy.
4557
In a bid to move things forward, the state supreme court finally ruled in 2013 that the airport had a 'duty' to provide a safe working environment.
4558
As with the original show, the remake will feature the Tracy family whose mission is to save the world .
There were 32 episodes over two series, broadcast in 66 countries.
4559
Going, going, gone:
In one clip the pooch is seen playing at a local dog park and in another he enthusiastically licks a jar of peanut butter.
4560
'Even though the TPS contacted them 525 times to warn them about complaints being made they continued to market their services through unsolicited phone calls.
4561
The next signs read Go To. Prom.
Luckily there was a happy ending to the disastrous proposal as, after wiping away her tears, Alex said yes.
4562
Fifteen people have died since records began in 1924 and dozens are injured each year in the annual event, known as the encierro.
4563
They booked her in for surgery four days later.
'They just said "She needs this surgery now",' Ms Ciach said.
'She's not the fatigued child she once was.'
4564
Lachaux allegedly sexually assaulted the teenager and she had become pregnant, but she did not know, reports the Review Journal.
4565
The tournament is now in its 15th year and both Philippe Coutinho and Lucas played in the tournament in the past as well as other big names, including Lionel Messi, Cesc Fabregas, Neymar, Geard Pique, Oscar and Juan Mata.
4566
Mr Matthews left his black Saab 93, similar to this model, in a side street close to Manchester United's Old Trafford ground before the race .
4567
They suspect the part-time builder was tricked into driving to Wembley to quote for a job – but the killer was put off when the imam took his teenage son along and claimed he could not find the keys to the house.
4568
The future of travel will be virtual.
Thanks to the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset, users will be able to see the world from multiple viewpoints .
4569
Racing for a child: White women had the shortest spacing — about 2 years, 2 months on average wheras black and hispanic women typically waited 2½ years or longer .
4570
Weatherford Police Department said all of the lost money had been picked up by citizens.
Police have also warned anyone caught with the money from the van will be prosecuted .
4571
They became friends inside Bali’s Kerobokan prison.
She took part in a police sting that led to the arrest of the syndicate’s leaders.
4572
The files show Wilson’s government approved plans to send officers from the Met to Wales to run a secret unit that would spy on the extremists.
But the increased surveillance did not stop the groups’ activities.
4573
Authorities and emergency personnel arrived to check the man into a Hefei hospital, where he received several dozens stitches on his left leg and buttocks.
4574
However, technology has been developed where a drone could lock onto a pattern on a runner’s shirt in order to track their speed and direction (shown)
4575
Police say Marc Wabafiyebazu rushed into the house after hearing the gunshots, but exactly what he did after that is not clear.
4576
By area Sandbanks and surrounding Lilliput, Branksome Park and Canford Cliffs, nicknamed 'Britain's Palm Beach', boasts the fourth highest land value in the world and the UK's largest concentration of expensive properties outside London.
4577
However, other polls had Labour nudging ahead.
The Labour leader is under growing pressure to rule out governing with the support of SNP MPs .
4578
Moments after his side's 14-7 loss at Kingsholm, the Kiwi veteran was led away to a police van with the entire incident broadcasted live on TV.
4579
Since winning the Champions League under Jose Mourinho in 2004 the Portuguese champions have made a habit of selling on players for huge profits.
4580
Sue Docken was also sold for $500 in 1951 from on office building in Butte.
She went back to the empty office building about a month ago to see where the exchange unfolded.
4581
It's terrifying.'
World Animal Protection's Dr Jan Schmidt-Burbach said this sort of behaviour is a 'far cry from their natural lives in the wild'
4582
'The Russian people would demand a forceful response [to such advances]', the Kremlin intelligence chiefs reportedly added.
4583
Alan Hutton (left) battles for the ball with Manchester United's Daley Blind in Aston Villa's 3-1 defeat by the Red Devils last weekend, but the defender is set to miss the clash against his former club Tottenham Hotspur .
4584
'We maintain our philosophy of letting the drivers race, but they both know the No 1 priority for the team is to win for Mercedes-Benz.'
4585
Rita Ora has channeled her passion for fashion into a new adidas range, so FEMAIL caught up with the global star to find out her influences and plans for the future .
4586
He will be here for the final.
‘People talk about football where confidence makes a big difference.
Winning silverware is of more consequence, he insisted.
4587
But the landlord says the court action has seen him lose the Stoke Inn in Plymouth which he used to run .
4588
A sunspot captured during the sun's solar maximum by backyard observer Dave Tyler in February .
A sun spot is pictured in this photograph taken in March by Mr Tyler .
4589
As with Monday night's awards show, the royal was called upon to make a speech .
Spain's Queen Letizia was attending her second awards show in two days last night .
4590
Chaos:
Mayhem:
Adults were trampling over us.'
It cost $20 to take part.
Organizers reminded people the event was planned for a good cause .
4591
They also face Manchester United, Chelsea and Arsenal in their final five games, along with a trip to Newcastle.
They caused them lots of problems,' he said.
4592
Yesterday the Prime Minister stepped up his attack on tax by insisting Labour was planning to drag nearly one million more people into the 40p tax rate.
4593
Waheed did not fly out with his family but joined them three days later on a flight from Birmingham.
He said: 'I don't know why they have been arrested.
4594
Caught on camera:
Aerial views:
Although Early says the 'helicopter eye' is a really fun idea he notes that he won't be using it anymore.
4595
‘I didn’t die of gangrene,’ he exclaims, adding that wound did not become infected and there was no need to discharge any pus from it.
4596
The scheme, which is backed by The Oregon Brewers Guld and Oregen Brew Crew, is proving to be highly unpopular with state residents.
1.
2.
5.
4597
The local policemen discovered the incident while paying a visit to the family who bought Wang from Xu .
The police is currently trying to track down Wang's real family.
4598
During her lifetime: .
Speaking in 2014, she said the secret to long life is kindness, saying: 'Treat people nice and be nice to other people'
4599
Her parents, Nicola and Paul, are hoping it will not have affected her ability to walk and talk but they must wait to find out.
4600
Gigi Hadid is one of many in-demand models whose social media following is as much a draw card as her good looks for clients booking her on jobs .
4601
According to The Local, Mrs Henkel told a local newspaper: 'It's a miracle, a gift.
Although Simba was 'traumatised' by his experience, he is quickly recovering and has put back on 300 grammes .
4602
In 2002, Skaf was sentenced to 55 years' jail for his part in a series of gang rapes in Sydney's southwest.
4603
Some Etihad season tickets have seen their price double, despite empty seats at times this season .
They are taking advantage of us, despite how poor they have been this year.’
4604
Henyekane went on as a substitute in Stars' 1-0 loss to AmaZulu in the east coast city of Durban in the PSL on Saturday.
South Africa has a poor road safety record.
4605
Scientists announced today that measurements made by the European space probe Philae, which landed on comet 67P in November, show the comet's core isn't magnetised.
4606
Studio one can play host to a 110-piece orchestra and 100-person choir simultaneously and has been used by the London Symphony Orchestra and the Glenn Miller Orchestra among others.
4607
He said the show 'wouldn't work' if there was racial diversity among its cast.
True-May said at the time the programme just doesn't 'have ethnic minorities involved.
4608
The performance of O'Connor, who won 100m freestyle gold on Tuesday, is particularly impressive considering the heavy disruptions to her winter training programme.
4609
Whilst he loves giving out advice on social media, Hussain appears to struggle with life outside the cyber world.
He also posted a picture of a gym which he appears to have briefly visited.
4610
Members of Ms Acocks' family, including her son Tim - who was a young constable at the time and one of the first at the murder scene - were at the hearing.
4611
Meanwhile, Knox Grammar was recently in the spotlight at the child abuse royal commission, which heard evidence about sexual abuse at the school during in the 1970s and '80s.
4612
On Friday around 10pm, Mrs Davis sent a message to her husband saying that her pregnant stomach was making her too uncomfortable to sleep to which he responded, 'I'll be home soon to rub your feet'.
4613
The company will now attempt to launch the uncrewed Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral, in Florida, at 4:10 pm ET tomorrow.
4614
The racers are still on the edge of their seats as they wait for the train to pass and level crossings to rise .
This was his final race with Team Sky .
4615
The psychologist noted that Robinson was delusional about the man.
Robinson was caught when the inmate brought up their relationship to a prison employee during an investigation about Jill Curry.
4616
Plastic Lego figures are being used by police as part of a quirky campaign to warn people about the dangers of housebreaking.
I didn’t feel safe at all.’
4617
A soldier examines the tunnel which already stretched some 500 feet from the property when it was discovered by Mexican soldiers .
4618
The Spaniard said he was not sure 'how long we can live with this situation,' adding that 'we are tired.'
Guardiola's team visits Porto on Wednesday.
4619
She was indicted along with seven other people, including the country's former economy minister Ion Ariton, who was charged with abuse of power.
4620
Boca Juniors 2-0 Palestino .
River Plate kept alive their cup dream with a 3-0 victory over Bolivian side San Jose on Wednesday .
4621
People want her hair, her make-up and now her wardrobe.
Chic: Kate in a £69 JoJo Maman Bebe maternity coat and, right, in a £35 ASOS polka-dot dress in March .
4622
While some might argue that they don't mind paying an additional few cents now and again, GetUp 's senior campaigner, Kelsey Cooke, told Daily Mail Australia that the costs accumulate significantly over the years .
4623
Commuter Amanda Curtis snapped the quadruple rainbow - made of two pairs next to each other - at the Glen Cove LIRR station outside of New York City .
4624
Their dolls will be joined by an even more amusing version of Prince Harry, as well as a roster of celebrities.
Prince Harry will also feature in the ITV show - albeit in puppet form .
4625
But the focus will have sharpened since Gers suffered their first defeat under his watch when they lost 3-0 to Queen of the South on Thursday.
4626
The Sydney mother's baby died in utero three days after she was offered a caesarean.
Dr Kidson-Gerber said it was a challenge to respect a patient who refuses life-saving treatment.
4627
He continued to fly into tackles, picking up a booking for a foul on Suso.
Referee Luca Banti and his official thought otherwise as the goal was ruled out for offside.
4628
Sunscreen:
She sported a slinky green dress and a gorgeous Louis Vuitton chain 'Louise' crossbody bag that we are just dying to get our hands on.
4629
West Ham could do with having the striker right now, having only won one in their last 11 and their early European hopes dashed.
4630
Ms Hornby also has a daughter Charlie, seven (pictured)
The case of little Freddie is not the first time a premature baby born abroad has left a couple stranded.
4631
September 2002: Thierry Henry, Arsenal .
March 2015: Olivier Giroud, Arsenal .
Samir Nasri's time at Arsenal ended acrimoniously but he was the player of the month in December 2010 .
4632
'We’ve had to put her on a diet she was getting so fat.
'I’m just about to get matching lions with my sister as we’re both Leos, so I’ll have the big cat one covered'.
4633
Once a delivery is made a customer uses touchscreens to enter their order details securely and unlock the relevant locker.
4634
The women helped each other get through the tragedy, which occurred on September 16 last year.
The initiative has already raised enough to help three families struck by tragedy.
4635
He was last seen shortly before 2.20am, when the boat finally slipped under, still trying to launch more lifeboats.
4636
But Mee denied her claims.
Mee was working at an Army careers centre in Croydon, south London, when the alleged incidents took place .
4637
The Tory chairman who gave himself a false identity .
But it is another name – Michael Green – for which he has become infamous in recent years.
4638
Citing his doctor, the lawsuit described Bieniewicz, who had two children, as being in great health with the potential to live to age 95.
In 2005, Saad was involved in another assault on a soccer field.
4639
The shootings are among a climbing number of violent deaths in Milwaukee this year.
Authorities said it is not yet known whether she will face charges in connection to the incident .
4640
'It doesn't matter how much money you have or how much money you make.
Jury member Kelly Dorsey says she locked eyes with Hernandez as the verdict was being read on Wednesday .
4641
In January, former Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay (right) tweeted a photo of himself in front of a fan (left) who wore a red shirt with the former player's name and jersey number on the back .
4642
It shows I am doing well.
'It makes me proud, but my intention is to stay at Atletico because I still have a year and a half on my contract.'
4643
That's what we needed.'
Former boss McCoist was placed on garden leave last December with assistant McDowall becoming caretaker manager.
4644
Above, German Red Cross workers carry bottles of water to help revive troops .
But it has continued to be used, even 100 years after the first attack.
4645
His mom is heard cheering loudly as they all celebrate over his acceptance letter for the internship.
'We just always encouraged him to do everything he could do,' she told ABC.
4646
The black pooch was filmed in action as he took a rescue rope out to his owner at the Clarence J. Brown Dam and Reservoir in Springfield, Ohio, on Saturday afternoon .
4647
Costume revival:
Sleeveless dress worn by Angela Cartwright as Brigitta.
Lederhosen style outfit with straps, worn by Nicholas Hammond as Friedrich.
4648
In this ‘Beckham Odeon’, a projector and pull-down screen would be built into the ‘non-historic’ ceiling.
Don’t skimp on the screen or just project on to a white wall.
4649
'So far, we have six (companies) that will have their logos on Manny's trunks.'
On May 2, both Mayweather and Pacquiao have agreed to wear eight ounce gloves of their choice.
4650
The victim suffered broken ribs in the attack, WHDH reported.
A vacuum could be heard inside his building, pictured, after police discovered the victim's head .
4651
Pitt vowed to help ‘make it right’ for the city’s thousands of displaced citizens by building eco-friendly homes to replace the ones destroyed.
4652
He is awaiting extradition to face murder charges in California appeared in New Orleans accused of illegal gun possession.
4653
According to posts on Mr Abercrombie's Facebook page, his son James had been asking him for days to perform the DIY removal before he gave in .
4654
Property portfolio: Sol Campbell and his wife Fiona .
Since 2009 Campbell has also owned Grade II-listed Hallington Hall, an 18th Century mansion in Northumberland.
4655
It was revealed that the mother's stepson has a long criminal record and was jailed again just days after she disappeared, a report suggests.
4656
Alice Springs Kangaroo Sanctuary manager Chris Barnes (right) said he attempted to take the bunny off Roger but was met with hostility .
4657
But the 30-year-old was more bothered by the man in the white coat and his assistant.
'So is this why folks say they hate Monday's!!???' he wrote at the time.
4658
A nearby flower stall owner, who asked not to be named, said she saw a man come running out of the cafe, shortly before the drama unfolded.
4659
The man known as Mad Dog predicted they would win promotion to League Two long before it was confirmed on Saturday.
No-one told those in Bristol that.
4660
He is accused of shooting 44-year-old Ron Lane at Wayne Community College on Monday morning before fleeing more than 500 miles south.
I don't give a damn if I go back to society.'
4661
Then he was asked about a specific alleged victim, Gillian Millar, who he is said to have attempted to administer poison to in January 2012.
4662
Alonso is already donning the soft compound tyre.
That said, Mercedes, and Lewis Hamilton in particular, appear to be back to their ominous best in Shanghai.
4663
The Spain striker aggravated a hamstring problem in last weekend's win over Stoke.
'[John Obi] Mikel is ready.
If he plays five it's more than I'm expecting.'
4664
'Doctors have said that the fact that Koby was running around at the time of the attack may have helped him - because it meant his heart was pumping.'
4665
Friends and relatives last saw them alive March 28.
At the vigil on April 10, mourners released balloons into the air as a memorial of the family of eight who died .
4666
The boy was reportedly in the coach's office in order to turn in paperwork concerning his trying out for the team.
 'We're just in total shock.'
4667
Anderson’s next departure from the natural game that had served him so well came not long after his first taste of senior international cricket.
4668
Oliver Kahn (left) and Peter Schmeichel star in Tiplico's latest advert where they renew their rivalry .
'I'm scared of myself!
4669
The Lord & Taylor deal highlights the gray area of bloggers receiving payment for promoting some goods and services, while others they lend their credability to for free.
4670
Slager then drops the Taser next to the dead body in the presence of Habersham.
Police are interviewing all officers involved, a police source told CBS News.
4671
The fallout from the Emirates FA Cup deal included former Minister for Sport Richard Caborn labelling the deal ‘commercialism gone mad’.
4672
A man was apparently beheaded by ISIS in Hama, Syria, for being an alleged 'blasphemer'
A series of gruesome images show the man being led from a van in handcuffs and blindfolded .
4673
Coco got three fish yesterday.
The estate is regarded as one of the most expensive properties in Scotland after going on the market for £3million .
4674
Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim has reignited his feud with Arsene Wenger by claiming Champions League quarter-final opponents Juventus are by far the better team.
4675
It was Quinn who helped Pierce cross the finish line at Boston's shorter 5K run just a day before the bombings in 2013.
4676
Choudhury told CNN that his success means he would never need to assault anyone.
I'm a rapist?
As they watched the films, he groped her, she said.
4677
Referee Frankie Santore Jr. went over to pick up the Samsung Galaxy and looked like he was chastising Jones .
4678
In a hearing held since Ward’s sentencing, a new boundary was drawn up allowing him to approach Miss Dunford’s farm from all sides.
4679
Pique trains with Lionel Messi (right) ahead of their match with PSG in the French capital this week .
'Many people have been fortunate to enjoy it.
4680
Kayla, who now says she is gay, said.
At the same time, another victim, Sara Vanwagenen, believed she was in a relationship with a man called 'Hyrum Young'.
4681
1. Twizzlers (below) are one of his go-to favourite snacks .
2. Ramen noodle soup is one of his favourite meals and he doesn't like five star restaurants .
12.
4682
A study claims that Britons spend an average of £62 a week on rewarding themselves, with retail therapy reaching a high at lunchtime today.
4683
The mine's total workforce is nearly 1,400.
In January this year, four people died during looting of foreign-owned shops in areas of Johannesburg.
4684
A young looking Steven Gerrard was pictured in the paper alongside the article written in 1992 .
'He has enormous natural talent and is a Liverpool fan through and through.
4685
The lucky little critter survived the reckless incident but was singed by the flame.
Quokkas can be found on some small islands off the West Australian coast .
4686
But since the attack I have been very wary and like to be home by a certain time.
The Edinburgh-based trainer apparently worked on and off with the No Doubt singer (pictured) since 1997 .
4687
She said that there were several dead people inside the house.
Two more people from the authorities walk through the police barricade and head towards the property .
4688
Black players of Milan's under-10 team were allegedly subject to heckling and racist abuse during Sunday's 4-0 win over Paris Saint-Germain in the Universal Cup.
4689
Underwear tycoon Michelle Mone is selling her three-bedroom  Glasgow townhouse in order to buy her ex-husband out of the 'dream home' they once shared, it is claimed.
Ms Mone recently revealed she has found love again.
4690
He is also charged with attempting to defeat the ends of justice, it emerged at a private court appearance today at Glasgow Sheriff Court.
4691
Jonas Gutierrez was dropped after a fallout with Newcastle head coach John Carver – and is now set to be released at the end of the season.
4692
Pulis has led West Brom to 13th in the Premier League after taking over when they were in danger of relegation .
4693
The letters could mean he was a member of a Sureno (Mexican Mafia) gang and was originally based in El Paso.
The operation began on February 23 and ended on March 31 .
4694
When officers forced their way into the flats they found Kirk inside, who claimed to have been asleep with his girlfriend all night.
4695
'And also the critical care team at Basildon Hospital - the treatment she received there was brilliant.'
Five days later she was allowed home.
4696
But the Gunners still finished in fourth place yet again, with Arsene Wenger's team were heavily criticised after throwing away the title.
4697
The stadium just erupted and I got emotional, it was crazy.
The striker wheels away in celebration of his brilliant strike just before the half-time whistle was blown .
4698
In that case, Maggio reduced the jury award from $5.2 million to $1 million in a lawsuit stemming from the death of a nursing home patient.
4699
Model Chrissy Teigen was praised this week as she posted a picture of herself to Instagram showing off her stretch marks .
I had shorts on.'
4700
But I try to give my best.
Veteran striker Drogba (centre) insisted he tried to give the best of his physical capacity against QPR .
4701
They then demolished the building and commissioned architects Barrett Lloyd Davis to design three mansions.
In Prime Central London it is unique.
4702
He has the mitigation of injury, of course, but does Wenger trust him to remain fit for an entire campaign?
Teams which win titles have players who, in short, play.
4703
These include Mizai in Kyoto, Japan which placed at number 15, Aqua in Wolsberg, Germany, which came in at number 21 and Hong Kong's Amber.
4704
'The wind was in the lions favour, they jumped up in unison and walked fast over the road towards the buffalo.
We could smell the blood.
4705
An unrelated matter, said by the White House to be an 'unattended package,' forced the building into a temporary lock down, adding to delays.
4706
Following the scare, the National Farmers' Union has issued advice for residents on protecting their property from invading badgers (stock photo)
4707
Australian Rugby Union chief executive Bill Pulver told Daily Mail Australia in a statement that the loss of Mr Tooth was 'incredibly sad'.
4708
'It was a really interesting day and so exhilarating to watch the riders launching themselves over the rocks.'
Stunning:
Dangerous:
Skills:
4709
He made a stinging attack on both David Cameron and firms that use ‘exploitative’ contracts which fail to guarantee minimum hours of work.
4710
The ride was closed temporarily and guests were filmed being herded inside the ride by staff in the wake of the killing.
4711
The court heard that one occasion when she went to see Mee, he slapped her bottom as she left the office, and she told him 'never do that'.
4712
The book was completed in November by David Lagercrantz based on a plot outline left by Larsson before he died of a heart attack in 2004 aged 50.
4713
New York is set to officially break ground this week on a Ferris wheel that could become the tallest in the world once it is completed in early 2017.
4714
Vargas opened the scoring against West Bromwich Albion at the Hawthorns Stadium before sustaining injury .
4715
The Meitivs hit back at the ruling, insisting they would continue to bring up their own children as they see fit - whatever the consequences.
4716
The doctors eventually confirmed that her waters had broken and she was sent to a specialist unit at Singleton Hospital in Swansea for close monitoring.
4717
A season later and he beat his own record by 16 days.
To put that in perspective, John Francome only had 10 Festival wins and Richard Dunwoody 18, while I had 13.
4718
Grealish, 19, was pictured taking so-called ‘hippy crack’, a legal high, after a night out nearly a year ago, with the image published in The Sun on Thursday.
It will change as different issues come into focus.’
4719
Firefighters arrived at around 9.30am and the building was evacuated.
Allison Mitchell (photographed), who lives in a neighboring apartment, said her room had smoke damage .
4720
'There is a lot longer break in the middle compared to what it would be normally, so I'll probably spend a week or so there.
4721
Thank you, thank you!'
Scott's father looks on, right, as his wife thanks the man who captured the video on Saturday .
I said I had a video tape.'
4722
When I crossed the line I thought I could go and run faster.’
The former World Champion says she knows she got the best out of her career, despite several injuries .
4723
The glamorous Hollywood-inspired collection, 'Sirens' Call', featured mirrored embellishments, fringing, and feathers, while the hair and make-up appeared to be influenced by the Great Gatsby.
4724
I don't know how I won that final frame.
'It was a struggle.
Doherty, now ranked No 46 in the world, showed his experience to close out the contest .
4725
Jurgen Klopp has announced he will leave Borussia Dortmund at the end of the season .
Brendan Rodgers is pictured putting his Liverpool side through their paces at Melwood on Thursday .
4726
However, Kyli's pain continued to return every time she tried to eat anything — even soup — leading her to visit two more hospitals in search of a new diagnosis and a cure.
4727
The spa has two levels connected by a spiral staircase set within a giant port wine barrel, and guests also have access to a Roman bath, sauna and The Yeatman’s indoor panoramic infinity pool.
4728
He described the situation in Libya since the fall of his cousin as a 'continuing tragedy'.
He told Il Giornale: 'The Mediterranean will become a sea of chaos.
4729
The court upheld the previous ruling in a 3-0 opinion.
'The district's yoga program does not violate our state constitution.'
4730
Manor have naturally had their teething problems since being rescued from administration, notably in Melbourne where Stevens and team-mate Roberto Merhi failed to make it out on track for a single lap due to the rebuild of their IT infrastructure.
4731
Stephanie thought she could use his hobby to send him a message from back on earth.
Stephanie drew the note on paper and worked with Hyundai to get it copied onto a large land surface .
4732
Eye movement studies show we look at different parts of other people's faces depending on the situation and level of attractiveness.
THE BLINK .
4733
'When Kate was photographed in Blue Almonds whilst pregnant, interest in Moses baskets definitely increased and sales of similar infant beds  also boomed.'
4734
This is a big occasion.'
Jack Colback (left) will be in for a hostile reception while Siem de Jong is still unavailable through injury .
4735
The Kincora children’s home in east Belfast was run by William McGrath, the head of an extreme Protestant loyalist group called Tara and an alleged MI5 informant.
4736
His record is fantastic,' Carragher said.
Fellaini could be targeted by Mourinho in midfield as he looks to find a way of stopping United on Saturday .
4737
Questions have also been raised about why the fees for the former Labour Prime Minister – who last week denied being in the 'league of the super-rich - are being paid by the United Arab Emirates, and not the Colombian government.
4738
The home videos of William were released on Friday.
She said the family was struggling with not knowing where William is or what happened to him.
4739
The controls for the Shimano 250-watt electric assist motor are located on the handlebars, and provide up to 50 per cent assistance.
4740
Charges were laid against Hamdin after a violent brawl broke out during the Australia Day rap concert, which resulted in several people being assaulted.
4741
The racing legend was swamped by photographers and punters following his last professional race .
There’s something deep and great about him.'
4742
Mr Murphy said the vigilante had set up a bogus online profile in December claiming to belong to a girl called Amy from Hinckley.
4743
Mooney was allegedly busted after she complained to school administrators that the boy's girlfriend was harassing her .
4744
Amy-Beth started baking at three-years-old and published her first cookbook, Amy's Baking Year, at age 13 .
That being said I try not to eat everything I bake.'
4745
Burton’s said it did reduce the wholesale price of the packs to supermarkets to reflect the lower weight, but it had no say over whether this was passed this on to customers.
4746
A coroner ruled the death as accidental after hearing how he 'never went near' the pool, according to relatives.
'There was no fence surrounding the swimming pool.'
4747
Killer:
The full report is not being published as it contains detailed, personal and private information, although a summary has been released.
4748
Labour leader Ed Miliband has insisted he does not live in a 'mansion' – despite admitting it is worth 'between £2million and £3million'.
4749
This is no mistake.
While a Royal aide says it is ‘a bit premature’, the couple will soon have to think about the option for their son.
4750
'British diving is the strongest it's ever been and we are all really excited about coming back to London and competing in our own pool.
4751
As a winger, that's what you like to hear - that you're not going to be criticised for trying to do the right things.'
No-one is getting carried away.'
4752
On Monday Hamilton told 11Alive that he doesn't condone breaking the law, but he has no regrets about attempting to prevent another tradegy.
4753
The extreme sportsman is also a photographer and it certainly helps when taking spectacular holiday photos that his girlfriend is a model.
4754
Neymar is a blend of Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi .
They need to sign players appropriate for positions, rather than trying to crowbar stars into the side.
4755
Waiting game: London Victoria station earlier this evening after a power cut in led to severe delays .
'This is probably the worst train journey I've experienced.'
4756
He added that the State Department will consequently be filing a complaint to Russia 'through diplomatic channels'.
4757
She said he lived with his daughter Ms Wrenn who then became suspicious about Adams’s behaviour - so secretly installed the CCTV.
I am feeling very vulnerable and am constantly on my guard.
4758
Shaw admits that Ashley Young is the biggest joker in the Manchester United dressing room .
In the changing room we hung a fake bird above his place as a joke which he didn't like.'
4759
His kids have gone to their dad to express their concern,' the insider told the gossip site.
The former Olympic athlete told Diane that his kids are 'the only one's he's concerned with'
4760
To save money, the airport installed these cushioned running tracks, which also include directional information .
4761
Brittany Lincicome shows off the ANA Inspiration trophy after beating Stacy Lewis in a play-off round .
This was Lincicombe's first LPGA tour victory since 2011 .
4762
'Adam was obviously very upset because he feels responsible for the defeat.
Federici is due to get married in the Italian city of Florence on the same weekend as the FA Cup final .
4763
Those who are there include Zahra and Salma Halane, the Manchester teenagers who have become known as 'the Terror Twins' and 45-year-old Sally Jones, a benefits claimant from Kent who now goes under the name of Sakinah Hussain.
4764
If Easter, Christmas, Australia Day, the Queen's Birthday or Labour Day fall on a weekend, a holiday is granted on a weekday.
4765
Down Augusta way they say the azaleas are in full bloom, which is more than can be said for England’s Justin Rose.
Does he pay much attention to the world rankings?
4766
Ms Coffey also won the People’s Choice category with her photo Feeding the Bulls and the NT Landscape category for her photo Sunset Storm.
4767
In fact, Johnson’s form has never recovered.
After six seasons at the Riverside, he was given the platform to prove as much.
Last year, he reflected on his time at City.
4768
Hartley said: 'They've still got good players.
Dundee Utd's Nadir Ciftci scores his side's equalising goal from the penalty spot against Ross County .
4769
One shed and one car was destroyed in the blaze which needed 200 firefighters, four aircraft and a pair of bulldozers to counter the flames.
Firefighters battled to save this home as flames lapped the outskirts of the property in Apple Valley .
4770
'We just need an outcome, at least that way we can all have some closure,’ he added.
In the week following her disappearance, police divers searched the Clarence River.
Strike Force Burrow will investigate the circumstances of her disappearance, comprising of detectives from the Coffs/Clarence Local Area Command and Northern Region.
4771
With the election now less than two weeks away, the Prime Minister and other leading Tories have stepped up their attacks on the SNP.
4772
David Cameron is accused of not keeping his promises and getting tough on the Premier League .
That will mean even more investment in grass-roots football.
4773
I am not getting carried away with where we are but we are doing very well in the Premier League.'
.
The chairman has done a fantastic job.
4774
Speaking to the Eugene Register-Guard after the contest, a newly-victorious Simon said: 'I thought he had me.
'I thought he was just so far ahead.
4775
As the couple are unlikely to sell their home, they want the council to put its original offer back on the table.
4776
Marks can be seen on the windscreen of the Fenerbahce team bus after the attack .
Finding and punishing the culprits is of vital importance for Fenerbahce.'
4777
The problem was posted on Facebook by ‘Hello Singapore’ television presenter Kenneth Kong, and went viral as people posted their various solutions to the problem.
4778
Thierry Henry has responded to critics who disagreed with his views on Javier Hernandez's celebration, by posting an 84-minute compilation video of Michael Laudrup's passing.
4779
Lewis Hamilton (Britain) Mercedes 1:35.782 .
Jenson Button (Britain) McLaren 1:39.276 .
Vettel was downcast, but said that the race may be a different story from qualifying.
4780
Mr Rayhons took to the stand to defend himself, explaining that he had not had sex with his wife on the night in question but they had kissed, held hands and prayed together.
4781
'One of the guys tried to wrestle us so [we] wrestled him to the floor until the police came,' Kvarzell, 25, who is also an officer, told DNA Info.
4782
Former Arsenal flop Nicklas Bendtner was not included in the Wolfsburg squad for Sunday's draw against Schalke as punishment for turning up late for training on Friday.
4783
Ms Sevilla told Daily Mail Australia the new life in Australia 'changed everything' for her and her son, and she was able to fulfill her 'dream' of working as a nurse.
4784
Booked: Stearman, Batth, Sako, Edwards.
Dave Edwards galloped through the middle and slipped a pass to Sako who smashed between Konstantopoulos and his near post.
4785
Hislop will discuss the importance of satire past and present while MacGregor, credited with turning the British Museum into one of the world’s most visited attractions, will explore 600 years of Germany’s complex history.
4786
National Grid plans to use the first operational T-pylons with the Hinkley Point C nuclear power station in Somerset.
4787
'We were devastated and mortified.
He said there was no reason for the items to be taken away.
Pinegrove has offered an apology to the families affected.
4788
Isobel wrote a message on Facebook last night, saying: 'Sorry for causing s*** for everyone.
Officers are becoming concerned for the teenager's welfare.
4789
Perz then called Mecham and told her how long it took him to get to that point.
'Gratitude is something in this society today that we just don't do enough of,' Mecham told ABC.
4790
Ms Garcia’s charge sheet, seen by the Daily Mail, states that she is accused of overstaying in Hong Kong from 1994 until 2015, having initially entered as a visitor.
4791
After the measles outbreak, Spokane district officials discovered about six percent of their students lacked proper vaccination documentation.
4792
Al Qaeda terrorists attack America .
April 2015 - US government sources claim he is likely to be transferred to an undisclosed country over the summer .
4793
Watch the buggy in action below .
'This work also allowed us to develop some technologies we felt were needed for our future rovers,' said Ridley.
4794
It's little wonder so many of the fairer sex refuse to acknowledge that they are good-looking, which is ironic because so many do it in private – behind the anonymity of social media.
4795
Carver has been left with a sour taste in his mouth following Michael Owen's recent relegation jibe .
‘It’s easy talking with a tactics board and dobbers, but all of a sudden
4796
Professor Haslam says: 'Those who are elderly or suffering from long-term conditions should be advised to become fitter, but not to lose weight.'
4797
Robinson, who enjoyed immense success before switching codes in 2000, also looks back on England's World Cup win as the pinnacle of his 20-year playing career.
4798
Pusok's arrest was recorded by a TV news helicopter and has led to an FBI civil rights investigation and 10 deputies being placed on leave pending an internal probe.
4799
Stevens in action against O'Sullivan in their second round match  at the Crucible Theatre .
The warning from Marteel could be the end of Sunday's matter.
4800
President Obama shakes the hand of a young participant in the Easter Egg roll on Monday .
However, one of the children in attendance Monday was invited by President Obama himself.
4801
After joining Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer as an honorary starter, he tweeted: .
After a 68 on day one, a 74 in his second round was a disappointment for Sergio Garcia.
4802
Donald Weber, from Canada, won the Still Life category with these pictures showing the crude handmade weapons used by protesters in Kiev, Ukraine .
4803
A caption explained that the wall could not be broken to free the animal because it would be considered damage to public property.
4804
Addressing the Scottish Trades Union Congress in Ayr, she said that SNP MPs at Westminster could 'vigorously and loudly' support a future Labour government in some areas.
4805
Patrick Bamford (centre), celebrating with Tamas Kalas, is in talks with parent club Chelsea over a new deal .
4806
Chris Smalling has signed a three-year contract extension at Manchester United worth in the region of £80,000-a-week after turning his career around at Old Trafford.
4807
Earlier, Ukip's deputy chair Suzanne Evans described the situation as a 'devastating tragedy', but insisted Britain needed to be careful not to 'encourage' fleeing refugees from moving to the UK.
4808
Bolton: Amos, Vela, Mills, McCarthy, Ream, Danns, Bannan, Feeney (Gudjohnsen 77'), Rochinha (Heskey 46'), Walker (Craig Davies 68'), Le Fondre .
4809
Deacon Ken Bilgrien of St Patrick's Parish told Christian Today on Wednesday that the church is moving in a different direction for its 45th annual Roundup, but declined to discuss the controversy surrounding the event.
4810
are then judged independently by people on the street.
Researchers found she looked five years older in the evening photograph compared to the morning .
4811
The Class of '92 have eaten there, and Wayne Rooney is a regular.
Clare Balding tweeted how she was at Wing's restaurant with Robin van Persie and the owner previously .
4812
Christine was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer and was told she only had up to three years to live .
Symantha said she has informed the police about the missing ring.
4813
Eastwood almost scored a dramatic late equaliser beyond Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet .
'It was a really important game for us today,' he told BT Sport.
4814
Prime Minister John Key said sorry to waitress Amanda Bailey, 26, after she wrote a post on a blog site shaming him for his behaviour and saying it made her 'uncomfortable'.
4815
The new poll of 4,000 British adults found 7 per cent reported they have a drinking problem.
23 per cent of 35-54-year-olds said they drink at home alone .
4816
Ahead of her surgery, Kellie told Lorraine Kelly that she wanted to have her nose made slightly smaller.
'At least it will stop me shopping,' she said.
4817
'Like a snake': This CCTV footage shows how a masked thief avoided infrared beams during a raid on a jewellers in Hampstead, north London, by crawling around the shop in a 'Mission Impossible'-style heist .
4818
There will be interest from other Barclays Premier League clubs but West Ham have a list of primarily young transfer targets ahead of their final season at Upton Park.
4819
13 years difference: Actress Rachel Weisz in 2002 at 33 years old (left) and now at 45 .
She has also been married twice and had a high-profile engagement to the Hollywood star Ben Affleck.
4820
She added that money worries meant she began to struggle academically as well as financially.
'Mostly students doing sex work don't talk about it.
4821
Dutch football made a killing in the stock market this week.
Depay is the Eredivisie's top goalscorer with 20, without even being PSV's main forward in their attack .
4822
'I also found great pleasure in making my food look nice, as well as taste good.
She said: 'I would love to bring healthy eating to the masses and be the female equivalent of Jamie Oliver.
4823
Spurs came from behind to beat Hull in November 2014, Manchester United and Chelsea claimed victory after trailing at half-time last season.
4824
The worst case I’ve come across is Crookilley Way in Stockport, which is littered with plastic bags and bottles.’ A
4825
The owner of the business whose camera captured the incident told WABC it was disheartening to see that the unidentified man left the woman all alone lying in the middle of the sidewalk at night instead of calling for help.
4826
'He met Tiffany back in the seventh grade,' Velasquez’s mom, Jessica, told ABC News.
Velasquez said that asking Jessica to prom was something he always knew he would do.
4827
And who can blame Mourinho for being so cautious?
But he fell into this negativity way too early in the season, and it led to their abject failure in Europe.
4828
Nikki carried a bouquet of flowers in her hands which set the scene perfectly .
Loved up: Nikki's engagement to Ian was confirmed in January .
4829
We stayed at the Hotel Arts, a modern masterpiece of the city.
The two Michelin-starred Enoteca is the flagship restaurant of Hotel Arts - it's stunning but not stuffy .
4830
6 .
Cesar Azpilicueta (left) kept QPR's dangerous attackers quiet and was good going forward to join the attack .
6 .
Jose Mourinho - 6.5 .
4831
Italian model Ambra Battilana, 22, has claimed the 63-year-old Hollywood producer asked her for a kiss and groped her during a 'business meeting' at his Tribeca office in Manhattan on Friday night.
4832
‘Too thin a steak will be easy to overcook.
The steak will feel firm.
There will be hardly any pink and the meat should have a bouncy, firm feel.
4833
A 26-year-old relative told police that the family has 11 children but that the 17- and 12-year-old were the only two subjected to the cruel treatment
4834
Only Liverpool and Manchester United actually achieved that in the five-year period of English ascendancy, though, of course, Chelsea did so improbably in 2012.
4835
Judge Burgess chastised her for her greed before ordering her to do 240 hours of unpaid work, adding that he hopes she will 'get her hands dirty'.
4836
'Trotty and Cooky gave them nothing and it will stand us in good stead for the Test matches,' said Stokes.
'The biggest thing for a batsman is time out in the middle.
4837
Israel is developing a system to accurately detect tunnelling activity, it has been revealed.
It is thought the system will cost around £2.3million ($3.5m) per mile to install.
4838
Finally, the association has been fined 50,000 euros.'
Riot police clash with Montenegrin fans after the game is abandoned following a pitch brawl .
4839
Scott Sinclair has confirmed he wants to sign permanently for Aston Villa at the end of the season.
They've been brilliant, a top side,' he said.
4840
Ms Liszewski said that the 'Make Mein A Dubbel' advertisement also suggests that the two women shown are 'part of the menu'.
4841
Odegaard is said to be on a different wave length to his Castilla team-mates because he rarely trains with them .
4842
The spoils of success included an invitation to Augusta.
Harrington has been working with Steve Peters (left) who has also worked with Roy Hodgson's England team .
4843
In total, Israel remembers 23,320 fallen since 1860 in fighting for the national cause.
Visitors pay their respects to fallen service personnel at a military graveyard in Tel Aviv.
4844
In 2008, the brothel's owner Tang became the first person to be found guilty under Australia's sexual servitude laws for forcing the Thai women to work at Club 417 .
4845
Fellowes revealed that many of the characters in Downton Abbey and his Oscar-winning 2001 film Gosford Park had been inspired by Trollope.
4846
Shockingly, Davis told Linzy during his confession that he laughed out loud for no reason he could remember during his frenzied attack.
However, during his interrogation, Davis did tell police why he brutally killed his mother and tried to kill his brother by burning down the house.
4847
Celtic can reopen an eight-point lead over Aberdeen by winning at Dundee on Wednesday night ahead of the post-split fixtures.
'We need to move on.
4848
O’Driscoll believes that, along with Toulon flanker Steffon Armitage, the Englishman should feature in this year’s World Cup - calling for the RFU to activate the ‘exceptional circumstance’ clause geared towards overseas players.
4849
The knives each have retractable blades to prevent injury, but the girls are being taught techniques which could save their lives .
4850
The 31-year-old Jack has won three straight fights after being stopped in the first round by Derek Edwards in 2014.
'I was ready for all 12 rounds.
4851
Of the 2,071 people surveyed, 22 per cent cited their pets as a close family member, above in-laws (21 per cent) but below grandparents at 26 per cent.
4852
Trott is dismissed by his England team-mate James Anderson in St Kitts .
England completed four days of low-key, uncompetitive warm-up action in Basseterre on Thursday .
4853
It's a far more wholesome lifestyle for Colin who confesses he's glad that his drink and drug-fuelled days are behind him.
She refused.
4854
Moeen is planning to join up with the England squad ahead of the second Test in the Caribbean, starting in Grenada on April 21 – having recovered more quickly from a rib injury than anyone expected.
4855
Aljaz Bedene has won his first match since becoming a British citizen in Casablanca Open qualifying .
'It's taken a while to get to this, but it's awesome to see,' he said on Twitter.
4856
Rashid was taken to a central London police station where he was charged today.
'He is due to appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court today.'
4857
Headteacher Elizabeth Chaplin brought in the new rule as part of a 'health drive' and drinks other than water were poured down the sink.
4858
With smoke already coming from the vehicle the officers had to act fast to get the injured woman free.
She has been identified as Dawn Milosky, 45, of Beachwood, N.J.
4859
The studio audience's excitement turned to groans and laughter after Kelly held up a sign saying, 'April Fools' and husband Mark burst out laughing .
4860
Analysts claim the images circulated by CSIS reveal that China is trying to create 'facts in the water' to bolster its territorial claim.
4861
In each case, at least 50 per cent of the abuse was racist.
Daniel Sturridge received 1,600 abusive messages, 60 per cent of which related to sexual orientation .
4862
It's believed that Garry Monk would be willing to sell the 26-year-old left back if the offer was right .
4863
But thanks to new puppet show Newzoids, we can at least get a version of them.
Of the Prince George skit, she said: ‘I like it because it is so surreal.
4864
He said that the email, entitled 'The Interns Are Coming' was intended to drum up support and give the impression campaigners are working hard.
4865
The British student had been stabbed four times and her throat slit in what the Italian courts claimed was a sex-game gone wrong.
4866
Both men lodged with Ms Comfort in the two months before her death and had a key to the property, the court heard at the time.
4867
The party was moved to a local park, where city officials offered to host the family.
Mackenzie had the chance to make friends from all over during the party .
4868
The device uses a patented Eyeteq algorithm to automatically adjust the picture, with a variety of settings available until optimal picture quality is found.
4869
Police say they have no objections to Sunday's Manchester derby taking place in the late afternoon .
'We have not objected to the 4pm kick-off time at all,' he told Sportsmail.
4870
“He received emergency treatment but unfortunately died at the scene,” he said.
Neighbours told The Herald Sun they still felt safe despite the shooting.
4871
The prosecutor last year claimed that there would be a fresh wave of Operation Yewtree arrests concerning the abuse of children by celebrities.
4872
He then stole £10 out of his wallet.
Officers said he was likely to have been left feeling vulnerable after being mugged in his own home.
4873
Villa put in an excellent display to upset Liverpool at Wembley and reach their first FA Cup final since Lerner bought the club.
4874
Ben Stokes (left) gives Marlon Samuels a stare as the West Indian gives him a send-off salute on Thursday .
Eng should line up a guard of honour for him.
4875
It also lost a wheel which came flying off, missing a child and her grandfather by little more than 10ft.
And the reaction of the driver?
4876
Nikolai has however denied the allegations and Wheeler has not faced abuse charges.
But Davis stated the sheer number of indecent images did not inadvertently end up on his computer.
4877
He also exerts positive influence on other students, who readily help Zhang.
With their assistance, Zhang has never missed out on one single class,' the vice-principal said.
4878
When Mr Farage added that he wanted a bigger British fishing industry, Essex added: 'Wicked.'
Mr Farage said he was visiting Grimsby because he wanted to 'get our fishing industry back'
4879
Fallon said she made it clear when she took her job that they were trying to start a family.
But he said Obama's actions signal to staff they can make family a priority.
4880
It took fire fighters 30 minutes to extinguish the fire, which destroyed Bradey's house and car.
The house has been demolished because there was asbestos found in the property.
4881
Last fall, Lakota Middle School in Federal Way, Washington, was placed in lockdown and police responded after an email purportedly from the Islamic State group demanded ransom money and threatened to 'shoot and kill' every American, according to a police report.
4882
Officers are also searching nearby rubbish dumps in Pinto.
The house in a quiet Majadahonda street has been searched by police, who reportedly found a meat grinder .
4883
Now new research revealed that male and female stegosaurus had different shaped plates running along their backs.
4884
The conservator pro-gun blog Bearing Arms published a piece saying that McGraw's fan base 'overwhelmingly supports gun rights and views a concert benefiting Sandy Hook Promise as being a betrayal'.
4885
Switt, who died in 1990, admitted to the Secret Service in 1944 that he had possessed and sold a set of nine other Double Eagles, which were recovered and destroyed.
4886
These claims, among others, follow a data leak last May, which saw the details of 50,000 current and former drivers released into the public domain.
4887
Melbourne-born, Paris-based designer Martin Grant (centre) will refresh the uniforms worn by Qantas' domestic and international pilots.
The Qantas uniform has evolved considerably since the 1930s (left).
4888
Diego Maradona works on his fitness by taking part in some boxing training .
Maradona punches the ball past Peter Shilton during the 1986 World Cup quarter final .
4889
Rotherham: Martinez; Hunt, Rawson, Broadfoot, Lafferty, Green, Arnason, Smallwood, Pringle, Bowery (Ward 77), Derbyshire .
Booked: Kayal, Ince .
4890
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has backed himself to improve the club next season .
Adam Lallana (left) was back in training for Liverpool as they prepare to take on West Brom .
4891
Brook remains the money-spinning fight on the agenda, with Khan having said on Tuesday that he wants to fight the IBF welterweight world champion at Wembley within 12 months.
4892
After being dragged back from the ledge, the woman is then placed in the patrol car and can be then heard crying.
4893
‘Jackie McNamara is a good guy.
'Take away Andrew Robertson and Ryan Gauld, who were sold last summer, that’s four mainstays of last year’s team now gone.
4894
FELLAINI CONTINUES TO HIT BACK .
Reinvestment is clearly needed in the summer and, on this evidence, the back four would be a priority.
4895
'I would like to say that I did all the hard work but I just got the glory run in with him.
Zara, who is working towards 2016's Olympic Games, struck a series of poses in the harness .
4896
West Brom supporters regularly applaud in the ninth minute of games at The Hawthorns, marking the number Astle wore on his shirt.
4897
Ipswich (4-4-2): Bialkowski; Chambers, Smith, Berra, Mings; Skuse, Parr (Anderson 66), Tabb, Bishop (Hunt 74); Murphy, Sears (Wood 83) Subs not used: Gerken, Chaplow, Williams .
4898
She said the president 'rushed over to the side of the bed' and took the Marine's face 'in his hands' so they could lock eyes.
4899
An Iowa politician is on trial this week accused of sexually abusing his wife after doctors said she was no longer mentally capable of legally consenting to have sex.
4900
It achieved notoriety last year after women who travelled to join the Islamic State's insurgency boasted of joining the police unit.
4901
He scored his 30th goal of the season against Birmingham City on Saturday.
Just 18 years old, Gray burst into the Birmingham team in 2013.
4902
They have subsequently lost seven times including early exits in the FA Cup and Champions League.
'We are doing some things very badly, that’s why we must improve.'
4903
Then you say that in the last minutes before the game, you hope you can recover and stimulate your players but by then it is too late.
4904
He said itanium silicon carbide might be the 'perfect fit' because it has the strength, weight and colour needed for Valyrian steel.
4905
QPR had lost 13 of 14 league away games before Saturday's vital 4-1 victory at West Brom.
'The morale has been good, very professional.
'The pressure is equal.'
4906
There’s no cup run, I just don’t get it.
I don’t get why he wants to own a football club.’
It’s not just about making money,’ he said.
4907
At one point the youngster can barely breathe as his whole face is given a slobbery wash.
'Bourbon easy!
The pup briefly pauses before resuming his licking antics.
4908
But Harry Kane is our player and if I decide he is in the squad to go to Sydney, it is our decision.
4909
January 30 .
Beatrice is spotted in Bahrain as a guest of the Gulf state's Crown Prince, who father has helped to put down pro-democracy protests.
4910
Animal rights activists have been complaining against the treatment of the tigers for years .
A Buddhist monk gives a tiger a drink from a bottle at Wat Pa Luangta Bua Yanasampanno .
4911
Villarreal's slide continued as a Diego Castro header gave Getafe a 1-1 draw in La Liga on Sunday but the match was overshadowed by a serious looking injury to Mateo Musacchio.
4912
The proposal took place in Kyoto, Japan two weeks ago, and the happy couple are now back in Perth .
4913
US tennis player John McEnroe (above) was notorious for letting his competitiveness get the better of him .
4914
Battilana also convinced Weinstein to meet him a restaurant and the NYPD were also there to watch that meeting, according to the newspaper.
4915
DNA evidence was gathered that linked Ikela to the horrific attack.
Police have only just released the information about Ikela's arrest, saying they are doing their best to protect the family of the victim.
4916
'I love this pitch and it's really fun, especially when playing against some new players who you don't get to meet every day in training.'
You can buy the Puma evoSpeed 1.3 from www.prodirectsoccer.com.
4917
Standing on their parade ground, the radical women are shown shouting jihad slogans and attempting to use their AK 47 rifles.
4918
The result stunned the watching world, and it took three years for Duran to rebuild his reputation .
But his manager Carlos Eleta said: ‘He always eats like that before a fight.
4919
Visit history.google.com and log in with your Google account.
The company has also warned user not download the search archive on a public computer to maintain privacy.
4920
Border chiefs have warned that one million migrants are waiting to set sail off the coast of Libya, with the need for drastic action to address the crisis greater than ever before.
4921
His seven-year-old sister, Jane, lost a leg.
On the day the op-ed was published, the Richard family revisited the finish line to take part in a memorial.
4922
Michael Vaughan praised Cook in the commentary box moments before he was dismissed .
Despite being the favourite for the director of cricket job, Vaughan is seeking more clarity over the role.
4923
In the latest study, published in the Journal of Human Evolution, the researchers used three dimensional imaging techniques to examine the human remains found in the cave.
4924
'When it happened my main worry was stopping the bleeding but I was also thinking "That's it.
'My hands are my work, so I thought I had lost everything.'
4925
In others, he is pictured blowing smoke, with the caption: 'High Life'.
Hitting back at critics, the boy tweeted on Friday: 'Wish some people would mind dey own business' as 'it's stressing my mama out'.
4926
Dr Wilson said there was an ‘international consensus’ of medical opinion that Ashya’s form of brain cancer should be treated by surgery followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
4927
Geysir is home to a row of geysers that fire boiling water and a sulphurous stench into the air .
Being unable to work out what it was all about is clearly a recurrent problem.
4928
Yesterday French prosecutor Brice Robin called for anyone with footage of the plane crash which killed 150 people to hand it over to the authorities.
4929
Bullock's distressed 911 call was played in court on Thursday.
Corbett was not armed when he was arrested at Bullock's residence, police have said.
4930
Around 120,000 couples divorce in England and Wales each year and those who want to divorce quickly are encouraged to cite unfaithfulness or unreasonable behaviour, which, critics argue, encourages recriminations.
4931
A spokesman for Guide Dogs said: 'We're always saddened when we hear about a shop or another service provider refusing access to a guide dog owner.
4932
Back in the day, Dunn had a brief stint as a model, before she went on to marry a professional footballer three years later: Manchester United's Alan Dunn.
4933
It also included a white minivan on Wednesday .
When that car stopped at a red light, the GMC van’s blue and red flashing lights came on.
4934
He deserves everything he has achieved.'
'We played with a good tempo and scored bags of goals.
On Ronaldo, the Italian added: 'He has improved just as the team have.
4935
Huddersfield (4-4-2): Smithies; Smith, Goberin, Hudson, Lynch, James; Scannell (Wallace 89), Goberin Coady, Butterfield; Wells (Edgar 83), Vaughan (Lolley 90)
4936
Researchers estimated that land in the country, minus all the buildings, roads and trees on top of it, achieved its peak value of $26.2 trillion in 2006 before sliding down three trillion dollars in three years.
The entire country is worth $23trillion, according to new study .
California .
$12,355 .
$14,241 .
$16,902 .
$75,429 .
$196,409 .
$31,923 .
4937
The review also slates the depiction of Catholic martyr Sir Thomas More, played by Anton Lesser in the show as an 'evidence-flouting caricature' that is 'sleazy, mean-spirited and just plain rude'
4938
Gemma the pit bull was filmed at home in California being fed some treats.
But in a bid to trick her, her owner throws a broccoli spear into the mix.
4939
Notts County have appointed former Tottenham and Hamburg coach Ricardo Moniz as their new manager .
4940
AP McCoy will have two rides on his final day as a professional jockey at Sandown on Saturday.
McCoy's penultimate race comes on Mr Mole in the Grade One AP McCoy Celebration Chase .
4941
Having safely secured his third grand prix win of the season for Mercedes in Bahrain on Sunday, the big cheese of Formula One will be big brother for a while.
4942
As it sailed into the net the goalkeeper came tumbling in after in an embarrassing moment he will want to forget.
Xabi Alonso, Liverpool v Newcastle 2006 .
4943
It’s 18 months now since Spieth attracted criticism for giving up on university and joining the PGA Tour as the 809th ranked player in the world.
Spieth, only 21, has since risen to number four in the world.
4944
He won promotion with Stoke City and got them to an FA Cup final.
Hughes now has the club sitting in 10th place, higher than Pulis achieved, and on a smaller wages budget.
4945
But Hardie did find the net after 10 minutes as he capped his full debut with a dream goal.
But they only had to wait three minutes into the second period for Hardie to strike again.
4946
The Duchess’s private obstetricians have been warned that they could be called to either location, The Daily Telegraph reports.
4947
Mr Zhang told local media that he didn't want to stop for the elderly victim because of the trouble it might cause him.
4948
Five children were questioned by police after 623 fires ravaged 600 acres of fields and woodland this month alone.
4949
Drive eO says it will be the 'first one megawatt all-electric race car with peak torque of 2160 Nm and kerb weight is targeted at 2646lb (1,200kg).
4950
CNN reports that bottles of the flavor have been on sale in grocery stores since last month.
S'more fun for summer:
4951
The criminal complaint named more than two dozen people as victims, one of whom claimed she was thrown out of her home after her family found out nude photos had been posted of her.
4952
Wearable art:
Natasha Hope-Simpson turned her handicap into an opportunity to create art and helped to create the design on her prosthetic leg .
4953
After other potential causes such as diet were ruled out, it was suggested the problem was down to the ten amalgam fillings she'd had as a child.
4954
She said: ‘My day starts with making 30 chapatis and 1kg vegetable curry in the morning.
6
 Mr Nandwana spends about Rs 10,000 (£110) a month on food for his children .
4955
Zinedine Zidane, picture playing in a United Nations charity match, has revealed his admiration for Hazard .
4956
Onlookers called paramedics after he was found bleeding profusely at the pool shop but they were unable to save him.
He later died in hospital.
4957
Not only being space effective, the larger chair aims to address the on-going debate about whether  to charge obese passengers for two seats.
4958
Sportsmail understands Arsenal’s interest is also serious.
‘He’s a young player who is still learning and developing on and off the field.
4959
The lengthy lay-off has not come without its benefits, however, with Launchbury able to spend more time at home following the birth of his daughter Blythe.
4960
Between the giggles, the pair discussed the fascinating clash with Villa and Sturridge's trademark goal celebration dance.
4961
Swafford, in only his second season on the tour, had six birdies and no bogeys during his second round, putting him in position to contend for what would be his maiden PGA Tour victory.
4962
There were stints in bands, but he made an awkward frontman, perpetually hiding behind an oversized pair of sunglasses and resolutely refusing to dance.
4963
'One of the most easy to understand betting staking strategies that punters use is what I call the approach, otherwise known as the Martingale Betting Strategy,' writes Mr Steward, author of 'Betting Strategy doubles up to win' for the website Punters Club Hero.
4964
Kathmandu's three 'Durbar Squares', the courtyards outside the city's old royal palaces, were devastated by the earthquake, with historic temples razed to the ground by the shocks.
4965
'I am innocent because neither the data for female genitals nor my art works shaped like female genitals are obscene,' she told judges at Tokyo District Court.
4966
Photographers have captured some remarkable pictures of the Lyrid meteor shower above the UK last night.
'It was an amazing display and I saw quite a few shooting stars.
4967
Glossy magazines have praised their spring/summer shoe range for its nods to designer brands.
This look is a surprise hit.
And the aqua bag is very ladylike.
4968
Another Oz alley, Joel Fuhrman, said the doctors weren't 'representative of the medical profession.'
'But the fact is that his advice endangers patients, and this doesn't seem to faze them.'
4969
A woman was reportedly spotted threatening people with 'a dildo in each hand' during an altercation outside Roches Family Hotel in Grafton .
4970
The fatal bite came Hatfield tried to recapture the snake.
'It really doesn't want to eat you, but it will protect itself,' he said.
4971
It also emerged there were 47 agency nurses working at the trust in December last year.
She said in recent months the hospitals have recruited more than 150 nurses and healthcare assistants .
4972
It will involve: no benefits at all for EU jobseekers.
It’s clear: Ed Miliband in Downing Street would increase immigration, not reduce it.
4973
F*****g Islamic Propaganda'
'I missed my stop because I wanted to stay on and make sure they were OK,' said Ms Eden, who was on her way home to Mascot .
4974
Johnson plays for the Tulsa Shock, and team President Steve Swetoha said they were looking into the situation.
She was the No. 1 pick by the Mercury in the 2013 draft.
4975
Arrest:
She told deputies during an interview that she was afraid to report the incident because she couldn't remember many details.
4976
Kim's weight loss saw her drop an incredible ten dress sizes to slim down to a slinky size eight.
The deep fat fryer was my favourite thing in the house.'
4977
He said that the bright light in the sky - which was 'brighter than the sun, shining round me' - matches videos of the Chelyabinsk meteor, which was estimated to be three times as bright as the sun.
4978
Six hostages who hid in a supermarket freezer during January's Islamist attacks in Paris have sued French media for broadcasting their location live during the siege.
4979
'When I signed I just wanted to come, give the maximum, and give my best for the club then after, it’s life, no?' Sagna said.
4980
Hundreds of German tanks rolled into the country in May 1940 as their Blitzkrieg led to France becoming part of the Third Reich.
4981
Dr Penman, of the RMIT University in Melbourne, made the claims in his book 'Biohistory: Decline and Fall of the West', and adds that Christianity helped drive social change in Britain which transformed the roles of women and children .
4982
Although the car was recovered, his mechanics failed to fix the fault until just before the start of FP2, in which three laps in he had to stop out on track as a safety precaution for the engine.
4983
The argument that senior ISIS militants still wear Nike products is unlikely to be considered much of a defence for the millions of brutally oppressed citizens living under the rule of the Islamic State.
4984
The former Prime Minister said his ideas of leadership were ‘close to a benevolent dictatorship’
He said he hoped to stay active in both politics and business well into his 90s .
4985
United will seek to sign Carrick's successor this summer as part of another huge spending frenzy.
Dortmund's ball-playing midfielder Gundogan has been watched extensively by United.
4986
England defeated championship leaders South Africa 21-14 in the decider of the Sevens Word Series event .
The 13 points keeping them third on 120.
4987
Six people were arrested at Dover this morning on suspicion of Syria-related terrorism offences, according to West Midlands Police .
4988
There are differing accounts about what happened, but Lechman told investigators Acre-Kendall showed a knife during the argument
He was just fishing.'
4989
Scott said he requested a parent-teacher conference, but Nancy Perry brought along her husband Bill, pictured above, who sites on the Board of Education.
4990
'Arsenal have made a big offer for Maxi Romero.
Arsenal are always on the lookout for young talent to join their ranks.
4991
'These chewy Anzac biscuits are a healthy twist on the original sugar, butter and flour loaded cookies,' says Taline Gabrielian, founder of Hippie Lane app.
4992
Both men are married to Catholics.
The Prime Minister, campaigning with supporters in Cornwall today, has vowed to turn all failing schools into academies .
4993
Simona Trasca, 34, said in an interview that her latest boob job was so cheap her surgeon could not have paid tax on it, so her plastic surgeon  sued her .
4994
American Apparel has also started airbrushing out pubic hair and nipples from lingerie models in attempt to make the brand 'less pornographic'.
But controversy continues to follow the company.
4995
Instead, parents are advised to move their children on to their stomachs during the day.
They found he did not have this condition and diagnosed flat head syndrome.
4996
Kane has five matches left in the Barclays Premier League with Spurs but Afobe is focused on scoring himself and is not jealous of Kane's success after he dropped out of the top flight for regular football.
4997
FBI chief James Coney said the force depends on its agents' ability to 'run, fight and shoot'
His new regime has led to many calling the agency the 'Fit Bureau of Investigation.'
4998
The Bayern Munich midfielder takes a tumble and the ball flies off in the opposite direction .
Alonso is flat on his back as his team-mates watch on and see the funny side to his fall .
4999
'The story finished in few seconds as the lion aggressively jumped towards me and I just about scrambled into my car.
It was a pretty close encounter.'
5000
Erica Leeder, 26, was charged after she squirted breast milk at a female police officer during a strip search .
The woman will appear in court again next week.
5001
But three years later, when Rafiq bought them a house, Jabreen claimed to be a private tenant and asked that her benefit payments be made to her landlord, Rafiq .
5002
At the right club the 24-year-old would thrive.
Asier Illarramendi has had his progress hindered by a lack of starting opportunities at Real Madrid .
5003
Three characters draw their own illustrations in an inverted sky shot .
Meanwhile, the sky becomes the sea in another illustrated image of a man on a boat surrounded by circling sharks.
5004
But Wenger insisted Wilshere will not be leaving the Gunners.
Jack Wilshere, pictured in action for Arsenal's Under 21s this week, is being courted by Manchester City .
Wenger has been handed a quadruple fitness boost ahead of Saturday's clash at Burnley with Wilshere, Mathieu Debuchy, Mikel Arteta and Abou Diaby all available for selection after long-term injuries.
5005
National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) archaeologists work at a tunnel that may lead to a royal tombs discovered at the ancient city of Teotihuacan in 2011.
5006
It wasn't pretty, but that was exactly what he did.
One Chelsea fan thanks Benitez for his efforts on the last day of the season in 2013 at Stamford Bridge .
5007
Going to India was a spiritual homecoming for Latika .
Latika thinks about what could have been if she wasn't adopted and started a new life in Australia .
5008
In reality, even 80 - 90 per cent of all the chemicals in household products like cleaning products and personal care products, have never been tested for harmful chemicals,' she said.
5009
She was previously accused of bullying staff and faced an investigation that was spearheaded by Ms Baird, her co-director at Victims First Northumbria.
5010
It became notorious in 2013 when a terror suspect went there and changed into a burqa in order to escape surveillance then went on the run.
5011
'I have faith about that and when the season finishes I am going to sit down and think about my future and what is the best for my career,' he said after scoring against Kuwait on Monday.
5012
The list shows the various steps the astronauts had to go through when opening and closing the hatch to space .
White used a small jet propulsion unit to move around in space .
5013
Victory would see Ronald Koeman's men usurp Spurs in the standings and bolster their European chances, with Davis, one of many to have worked under Pochettino, well aware of what a 'big game' this is for all connected to the club.
5014
A Conservative Party spokesman said Mr Farage was 'playing politics with the military in a calculated and completely irresponsible way'.
5015
Huntsman’s hut in the forest – sustainable hunting is still allowed in the forest and the hut is also used as a base of operations .
5016
Cech is set to leave Chelsea in a £10m move this summer.
QPR defender Rio Ferdinand could be offered the chance to play in the USA, India or Qatar next season .
5017
The device pops out of its strap so you can take advantage of the two cameras.
It tracks your heart rate and has sensors for skin temperature and sweat levels.
5018
U.S. researchers are testing the new gel it as a dressing for burns .
It's hoped the platelet-rich plasma will allow the wound to start to heal before it can deteriorate.
5019
'It's their own issue but we'll stick with them.
Ian Bell also lost his wicket late on the third evening as England's first three wickets fell for just 52 runs .
5020
Mr Farage warned that foreigners arriving in the UK 'has directly contributed to the housing crisis'.
But Mr Farage retorted: 'The real audience are sitting at home.'
5021
For more, visit Extra online.
Last year, he appeared before a US Senate panel that accused him of endorsing products that were medically unsound.
5022
Some elephants will live out the rest of their lives in the conservation center, while others will be use for breeding .
5023
Aston Villa's players were able to read messages of support from fans before their FA Cup semi-final clash against Liverpool as the words of wisdom were displayed in their dressing room.
5024
'This particular bear called Beaumont Bear once belonged to Flight Lieutenant Stephen Beaumont, a 30-year old Spitfire pilot in the Battle of Britain.
5025
He was said to have 'seriously annoyed' Nicole after sending her a love poem and repeatedly calling her house to invite her to the ballet.
5026
The matches will still ignite if they get wet, and they are quite impact resistant.'
He explained that other devices that are used to light a fire are not always reliable.
5027
The house in a quiet Majadahonda street has been searched by police, who reportedly found a meat grinder .
The brother of Miss Giogiosa has flown to Madrid to help with the investigation.
5028
The 90-second attack was captured on CCTV by a neighbour who passed the footage on to the cat's owner .
Devastating:
He was a real character.
5029
But Pigwig wasn't the only animal who needed rescuing after taking an unexpected swim .
Crews in West Sussex were called out to a swimming pool where this time a horse had fallen in.
5030
Addressing the plagiarism accusations, Ms Bines explained she left recipe sourcing to a nutritionist who was 'better qualified' to give advice in a video seen by Daily Mail Australia.
5031
At 2.35pm, police and ambulance crews were called to the Cornbow Shopping Centre in Halesowen, where they discovered Mrs Garratt's body.
5032
It says the aircraft could find uses for coastal defence, customs patrols and perhaps even be used as the public transport of the future along 'marine highways'.
5033
'We are not always scoring lots of goals and that's the difference.
'But those types of individual, high-quality players are not playing for Southampton.'
5034
Through his fictitious investment opportunity and cancer con he made thousands of pounds which he used to fund a lavish lifestyle, going on exotic holidays and driving expensive sports cars.
5035
Later that month, Mohamud was arrested at his Columbus home for allegedly providing a computer tablet an other material support to terroist organizations aborad.
5036
Kenya's athletics federation has suspended the agents of marathon world record holder Dennis Kimetto and other top stars while it investigates the spike in doping among the country's runners.
5037
However, after the victim Mr Tymon said that he did not want to press charges, North Yorkshire Police has now decided to drop the probe without taking action against Clarkson.
5038
DRUGS .
Italians use the banana emoji the most.
These include the banana, eggplant, peach, cherries and the Cancer astrological symbol.
5039
These pictures show the moving moments men, women and children living in the United States were reunited with their deported relatives after the border gate to Mexico was temporarily opened on Sunday.
5040
The When Nurture Calls campaign was launched to show 'mothers who have been harassed to the point where they feel they have no other option but to nurture their baby in the restroom as to not offend anyone.'
5041
'Appropriated image':
The book was self-published by the pseudonymous Noonan, meaning she is likely the one who chose the image for the cover.
5042
Manny Pacquiao is joined by several fitness fanatics as he jogs around Griffith Park .
Spectators watch on as a fitness coach puts Pacquiao through his paces at LA's Griffith Park .
5043
Her comments follow a controversial warning by Defence Secretary Michael Fallon that Labour might be unable to renew the Trident nuclear deterrent if it is reliant on Nicola Sturgeon’s SNP – as the polls say is highly likely.
5044
According to reports the aircraft was making a test flight after the exchange of a main rotor blade.
It is understood three mechanics, as well as the pilot, were among the dead.
5045
One agent even told her that 'it's better to be androgynous than a tranny', but Andreja refused to fall prey to those opinions.
Fashion friends:
5046
According to reports in France, the Cote d’Azur club have tabled an offer for the Wallaby No 10 who is expected to travel to France this week to discuss terms with owner Mourad Boudjellal, who made his fortune in the comic book industry.
5047
Pupils attend chapel at the historic independent school, where team sport has been played for hundreds of years .
Father of Rugby School:
5048
It would be too much to ask him to fill Yaya Toure’s boots.
Isco is one of Spain's new generation and Vicente del Bosque is looking to build the team around him .
5049
Evans has drawn criticism from health experts for promoting a controversial caveman 'diet'
'Her diet may have been poor previously,' Dr Itsiopoulos told Daily Mail Australia.
5050
Final result: The team behind Fullips claim it can achieve an Angelina Jolie-sized pout, but Charlotte found the results were not quite as dramatic as she had hoped .
5051
Astonishingly, the 15-year-old girl, who was hit on Entrance Road in Warrilla at about 1am on Wednesday morning, suffered minor injuries and has already been released from Shellharbour Hospital.
5052
According to police Mr Docherty hired the victim to complete concrete works at his property.
Mr Docherty then repeated that he would rip the man's genitals off.
5053
'I thought we played well today and we had a few chances,' the 31-year-old said.
The pair have exchanged words on Twitter in recent weeks over the striker's appearances for England.
5054
Isco returned to the starting XI for the second leg of the Madrid derby in the quarter-finals, as injuries to Gareth Bale and Luka Modric forced Ancelotti into a change of system.
5055
John Carver will turn to Siem de Jong in a bid to save Newcastle’s sorry season.
Newcastle boss John Carver will be hoping his side will improve following the return of De Jong .
5056
One woman said she had a father in the army but her picture illustrated something completely different (left) while two friends pulled funny and awkward looks inside a crowded bus as they headed to dawn service .
5057
Prince Harry's former girlfriend Chelsy Davy debuted a grown-up and glamorous style as she stepped out in a sophisticated summer outfit for a London restaurant launch on Tuesday.
5058
Newcastle have made no secret of their view that the domestic cup competitions are unimportant, and European qualification very nearly ended in disaster during the 2012-13 campaign.
5059
To add to the suspense, the league now pauses for a month.
And it goes without saying that the final day of the season on June 12 will be a tense affair.
5060
He then professed himself 'dumbfounded' by the team's performance.
The unpalatable odds are that the next stop after that could be somewhere like Braintree or Dover.
5061
María Dolores Garralda, professor at the Complutense University of Madrid, and lead authors told SINC: 'Some Neanderthal groups cut and tore apart child or adult corpses shortly after death using lytic instruments'
5062
Preparation:
Boy or girl?
Another Dorothy and Theodore piece likely to feature in the royal nursery is the company's £550 rosewood rocking horse.
5063
As well as the claims about Travolta
, former senior members of the faith told documentary makers about the various forms of punishment meted out by leaders.
5064
Cincinnati Police Officer Douglas Swingley tells the newspaper the woman was the only occupant.
He says he rushed to the car.
5065
The app, which Bianca London, left, before, and, right, after, tried out, claims to give any user the ability to achieve high-end, realistic looking results, comparable only to what a professional can achieve on the desktop with Photoshop .
5066
His overall physicality has helped LVG bring back a formation that he used earlier in the season against Chelsea, Manchester City and West Brom, without winning any of them.
5067
Todd Phillips waits in the pit lane as the car makes a stop during the race in Louisiana .
Phillips was flipped upside down by the force of the car but escaped only with minor injuries .
5068
It's nice to have games where we can directly affect their end to the season but the flip side is they will see it the same way.
5069
A Saudi Arabian man has been arrested at the Mexican border after attempting to flee the country to avoid facing rape charges in Utah.
5070
A power nap of just 45 minutes can boost memory by five times, research has found.
‘We already knew that memory would be strengthened for the pictures paired with the electrical shock.
5071
The designer's success shows no sign of abating as she unveils yet another stylish range .
She also swears by the 8-minute abs YouTube video, which she does when she gets home from the gym.
5072
Survivors have recalled how they felt themselves being dragged by the wind and snow and emerged to find the camp destroyed .
I lost consciousness.
5073
Davis - who cried throughout the hearing - spent cash on Chinese takeaways, Amazon, eBay, children’s nursery fees, insurance and on mortgage arrears payments.
'She said he must have been confused and he was a drinker.'
5074
Immigration population will grow almost four times faster than native-born population and will reach 15.8 per cent of the nation's population by 2030, 17.1 per cent by 2040 and 18.8 per cent by 2060 .
5075
Teena Nemelka, right, mother of Private First Class Aaron Nemelka who was killed during the attack by Major Nidal Hasan in the 2009 Fort Hood shooting, looks down at her son's Purple Heart .
5076
Cristiano Ronaldo scored five goals in Real Madrid's 9-1 rout of Granada on Sunday .
Ronaldo's five-star performance is hailed in the Monday edition of the Spanish sports daily AS .
5077
London has at least 425 marketing staff and press officers working across its local authorities, four times more than the entire editorial staff at the Evening Standard, the Times reported.
5078
Surprisingly, given the sheer number of teens attempting the feat, it appears the results are far from desirable.
'I did the #kyliejennerchallenge and my lips turned purple,' claimed yet another.
5079
Sniffing out trouble: Twitter user Rick Borgmeyer uploaded this photograph of an officer patrolling Liberty Island with a dog .
5080
Now researchers have released an interactive roadkill map to show the trail of destruction being caused by California's state highways.
5081
Police also seized a ‘smoking device’ from the pair's car, which reeked of pot.
The 27-year-old told police he was just having fun with the laser and did not know it was illegal .
5082
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho believes he is improving in every aspect of his job but insisted his one problem is that he cannot help but be truthful when he addresses the media.
5083
'Far too many GPs recommend hysterectomies as the solution to a prolapse, when a sacrohysteropexy is a much better alternative.
5084
It is believed that a false mouth was placed on Miss Wendy's face, which is triggered by a remote control .
Others said the act was cruel.
5085
A report to the French government is urging eateries and customers to embrace 'le doggy bag' in a bid to reduce the staggering amount of food thrown away each year.
5086
Gov. Sonny Perdue subsequently launched an investigation, which concluded in June 2011 .
Dessa Curb, a former elementary school teacher, was the one educator acquitted of all charges.
5087
Minchella has been named in Henderson's 19-man squad for Friday's game with Featherstone.
'It's a massive change of scenery but I'm going to learn a lot from being down here.
5088
It proved too much too soon for Paris Saint-Germain's David Luiz as the Brazilian was prematurely brought back from injury to replace countryman and captain Thiago Silva in the first half against Barcelona.
5089
Chris Ramsey's side are still in the relegation zone but the defender believes other teams will be worried about them.
We're going to play on the front foot.
5090
'He spoke up and out against the crime of terror and oppression wherever he found it,' it said, adding that Mr Arwani was 'a British citizen who loved the people of this country'.
5091
This is not the first study to link coffee consumption with improved cancer prognosis.
Drinking coffee may reduce the risk of cancer in heavy drinkers, research has found.
5092
The average household now owns 7.4 internet devices and four in 10 bought a tablet in the last year.
5093
Said the woman; 'If I didn't have this, there's no way I would know when it happened, how he came in, what was touched, what was compromised.'
5094
Hakaoro had previously tried to have the complaints dismissed on account of not being able to defend himself from prison.
5095
More information about the campaign can be viewed on the Europcar blog.
Some of the famous Instagram team gather for a photograph in front of rolling Scottish mountains .
5096
Glad it wasn't jazz hands!
And congrats on your hat trick,' she replied, alongside an emoji of two open hands.
'In fairness, Devine apologised to Pocock.
5097
How will this be paid for?
It would enable them to clean up derelict or contaminated land, and could lead to 400,000 new homes in five years, Tories say.
5098
Daniel DeMarco was arrested on Friday at 2.45pm in Elmwood Park, New Jersey, after police approached him because he 'looked suspicious' and found him in possession of a bag of crack cocaine, a hypodermic syringe and drug paraphernalia .
5099
London-based Bedene, 25, will now face third seed Jiri Vesely, who was given a far tougher test as he progressed to the last-eight.
5100
Josephine Oxley, keeper of the Wellington collection, said visitors would be able to find out about the man behind the battle and also see the scale of the banquets which took place every year from 1820 until the duke died in 1852.
5101
In many of the videos he can be heard talking in a European-sounding language.
Stanford commented 'I regret nothing' on a YouTube video about Nazi leader Rudolf Hess.
5102
I told him that I was not a prostitute.'
‘People who look after Marcos claimed I had demanded £100,000 to keep quiet about our encounter,’ she said..
5103
The debate spurred a flurry of reaction from footballing stars on Twitter who came out to give their opinions on the leaders.
'What's going on here?
5104
Potchen, who was originally sentenced for a 2000 bank robbery, had been making $8.29 an hour in prison but had trouble finding a job on his release, according to the Chicago Tribune.
5105
Each game was fiercely contested with both men playing superb, intense tennis.
World No 18 Monfils hit 22 winners to Federer’s 17 as he shocked the 17-time Grand Slam winner .
5106
Redfearn's position has become increasingly threatened over recent weeks, despite leading the club to Championship safety after taking over from ill-fated predecessors David Hockaday and Darko Milanic.
5107
Robert Charles Bates, 73, accidentally grabbed his pistol and shot a man dead, it has been claimed .
Speaking to local site News OK, Bates said: 'It was me.
5108
Comedian Limmy grins manically as the three-inch house spider crawls out of his mouth onto his chin .
And David Morgan added: 'Let the nightmares begin.'
5109
Experts believe it's the largest subterranean European wasp nest ever discovered with up to 100,000 wasps could have been living inside, Seven News reports.
5110
'We've got to make sure the medical experts are happy and satisfied that he is fit to return to play and as soon as they say he is, then we'll be happy to pick him again.'
5111
Higgins has sprung back to competitive form level this year, notably in taking the Welsh Open title in February to end a two-and-a-half-year major trophy drought.
5112
BRUISER BUTTLER .
UMPIRE DAVIS STUMPED .
Eoin Morgan, who was overlooked for the first Test, was in action for Sunrisers Hyderabad on Thursday .
5113
'John Terry has been brilliant this year but he does sit off a bit deeper now to allow for his lack of pace and that might give more space in midfield.
5114
Ms Crear said that she had heard peahens screaming before the incident when the bird, the largest and oldest male peacock of those that live in the subdivision, was stolen, according to NBC Dallas.
5115
The appeals court opinion states the child born in 2013 has 'significant medical issues, including medical issues that are likely due to the close genetic relationship of his biological parents' and there is a chance these are present in the newborn.
5116
The illegally landed craft  was piloted by Florida mailman Doug Hughes to protest against government corruption and to promote campaign finance reform .
5117
A decade on and the same tricks and shimmies are flummoxing defenders in the Barclays Premier League.
My mind is at Liverpool.’
And so on to Wembley.
5118
Although many people believe a nightcap will help them sleep, alcohol is counter-productive and tends to make you wake in the night.
5119
Bradford have launched an investigation into reports that cars were vandalised during Sunday's Ladbrokes Challenge Cup fifth-round defeat by Hull KR.
5120
Her eldest daughter's newfound freedom had reminded the first lady that not having dirven herself in seven years she had forgotten how to.
5121
Inside the nebula is a fantasy landscape of pillars, ridges and valleys made of gas - the fuel for new stars.
They are thought to be incubators for new stars.
5122
He's taken good care of them,' she said.
The city has also given Majnaric 30 days to relocate a gazebo that served as a roosting place for dozens of the birds.
5123
Two years later Suchet said could say about the 'wretched disease' was that it was 'taking its course' and confessed things 'will only get worse'.
5124
But five goals in 13 minutes ensured England left victorious.
City striker Flint scored her second and third goals of the game in between two Leah Williamson penalties.
5125
Casey has also designed accessories to complement her outfits, which she says is a 'dream come true'
'My figure has changed since I've had my breast reduction,' she explained.
5126
Brian Klawiter posted a message on his company's Facebook page on Tuesday in which he announced that openly gay people are not welcome at his business because he considers homosexuality to be wrong.
5127
However this steep-walled phenomena is located in Japan and attracts visits from thousands of tourists annually - with the number predicted to rise this year.
5128
My favourite was the Tagish Wilderness Lodge - a speedboat whisks you across a lake on a 45-minute journey from the nearest road.
5129
Local speculation suggests the site is a common dumping ground for `wasted' dogs used by people in the industry.
'To me, it's an exaggerated statement,' he said.
5130
Bill Gates has invested some of his fortune into projects aimed at finding sustainable solutions to problems in poverty stricken areas of the world including turning sewage water into clean drinking water (shown above)
5131
If it wasn’t for her actions I would be dead – lying in that passageway dead.’
I’ve been spoiling them both since with treats, but every time I cough now Lexi turns her head quickly.
5132
He claims experts advised him that temperatures higher than 42 degrees Celsius can kill the cancerous cells in his body, according to the People's Daily Online.
5133
Pope Francis leads Easter Mass in St Peter's Square in the Vatican.
It is thought that the Roman Catholic Church do not object to the plans to fix a date for Easter .
5134
Researchers also found a 'macho culture' in some parts of the industry and misconceptions about the threat of ultraviolet radiation in climates like the UK's as cloud cover does not give total protection from the sun.
5135
Both men were to be put before a judge later today.
Yesterday, the Maltese Prime Minister declared a crisis, calling for EU countries to reinstate rescue operations.
5136
In the evening game, Inter Milan beat Verona 3-0 to end a seven-match winless run in all competitions.
An unlucky own goal by Vangelis Moras in stoppage time completed Inter's win.
5137
Labour candidate Tulip Siddiq (left) was last night accused of failing to tell voters that she met Vladimir Putin (right) in Moscow two years ago .
5138
The Australian Navy has allegedly returned up to 50 asylum seekers to Vietnam in a secret operation .
5139
The Google engineer uploaded this picture while attending Burning Man in the Black Rock Desert, Nevada .
Google says it is committing $1 million to the quake response.
5140
Third-placed Manchester United have have the highest wage bill at £215.8m, based on last season's figures .
It also put a long-term limit on a club's overall losses.
5141
Again, the ease with which Ighalo turned Woodgate will have bothered Karanka, as will Grant Leadbitter’s sloppy concession of the ball in the build-up.
5142
Pressure from fellow actors is said to have caused bosses to relent and enable their 'talent' to take on radio voiceover jobs, although television adverts are said to still be strictly forbidden.
5143
Canterbury coach Des Hasler has apologised on behalf of his club over the actions of some fans after objects were thrown .
5144
Mr Turnbull has not commented on the tryst, but the school confirmed senior staff had told him to 'never return'.
were all informed of the incident.
5145
Currently, a total of 215,462 licences exist compared to the 177,675 owned in 2010, according to figures obtained by News Corp.
5146
Ronnie O’Sullivan took off his shoes mid-match at the Crucible on Tuesday — but still socked it to debutant Craig Steadman.
Then I checked the scoreboard.
5147
The blast left the man with minor injuries and he was admitted to Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.
Authorities do not believe the two men had any ties to terrorism.
5148
Kimi Raikkonen has been urged to improve his performances if he wants to stay at Ferrari .
'He was telling me about the contract and I said to him, 'It depends on your performance'.
5149
When Zheng returned, her daughter was nowhere to be seen.
Before the fall: Jiaojiao proudly shows off her picture of a pond before the accident at her home on Sunday .
5150
Meanwhile heart rate was recorded every minute.
One male study volunteer recorded a core temperature of 40°C (104°F) WHAT ARE THE SIGNS OF HEAT EXHAUSTION?
5151
It sticks out like a sore thumb.
The continued presence of the light, prompted one local resident to write this abusive message to Mr Franklin .
5152
Mr Miliband will allow Scotland to set a more generous benefits system than the rest of the UK if he becomes Prime Minister .
5153
Warrington crashed to a third straight Super League defeat and could be in trouble with the Rugby Football League following crowd trouble in the Cheshire derby.
5154
Although his cafe may stake a claim to creating Britain's most tooth-rotting dish, Mr Taylor is keen to point out some of the shop's biggest sellers are muesli, Special K and protein granolas used as an after-gym snack.
5155
Footage shows exotic pet owner Kayonna Cole holding her female rose hair spider up to the camera as it digs its fangs into her skin.
5156
Last season there was a period of frustration among Chelsea's first team players because they shared the view of the coach that they had signed a world class talent.
5157
'He has stolen a little girl's innocence and I hope he rots in prison and dies there for what he has done.'
She is understood to have suffered severe psychological since.
5158
As Silver was returned to Mrs Styler, the aide told her: 'The Prime Minister loves dogs, but it was just for security.'
5159
More than 100 locals joined a search for the toddler that lasted all day Saturday.
Police do not believe the death was suspicious.
5160
Dozens of Iraqi witnesses to the bloody September day in Baghdad volunteered to travel to Washington to testify against the former guards, the New York Times reported.
5161
Mr Jones was confronted by a police officer opening fire at him as he followed instructions to produce his driver's license and was hit in the stomach.
5162
Lampard responded: 'Well we have had a couple.
Van Outen and Noel Fielding also took part on the show where Lampard scored a penalty against Carr .
5163
Certainly, Guardiola’s position is interesting.
Having enjoyed success in first Spain, and now Germany, Guardiola's next destination is set to be England .
5164
He believes by installing fat warning signs outside fast food joints, there is a concrete health warning for those who are overweight, which should make them think twice before tucking into a burger and fries.
5165
Keaway Lafonz Ivy, who went by the stage name Kealo, died from a single gunshot wound to the chest after being struck by a bullet in the area of 62nd Place and Eastern Avenue in Seat Pleasant Wednesday night.
5166
D Ramdin (c), K Brathwaite (vc), S Benn, D Bishoo, J Blackwood, C Brathwaite, Da Bravo, S Chanderpaul, J Holder, S Hope, K Roach, M Samuels, D Smith, J Taylor.
5167
Judge Rubin asked jurors to raise their hands if they had certain jobs and when it came to medicine, Roberts said his sister was a nurse.
5168
The urology specialist worked at Custom House surgery in north London, as well as other local practices .
You opened up the shampoo, cleaned it and put in the iPhone.
5169
The pair are currently being held in isolation on Nusakambangan prison island (above) where foreign drug dealers were executed on January 18 this year and where the two Australians may be shot dead by firing squads on the same night as nine other drug dealers .
5170
'This is a really big game for both teams on Saturday, with just four rounds of fixtures left in the season.
5171
An EE spokesman said: 'Starting today, iPhone customers on EE can make and receive high quality calls over WiFi and send text messages, using their own phone number with no need to use an app - great for when a mobile signal is unavailable.'
5172
Pembrokeshire Coroner Mark Layton said the current advice on 'co-sleeping' is 'confusing'
Sadly it is not uncommon for a baby to die with no obvious cause of death.’
5173
Stars including Delta Goodrem, Shanina Shaik, Kerri-Anne Kennerley, and Terry Biviano, were joined by fashion influencers Kate Waterhouse Margaret Zhang and Tanja Gacic in the front row.
5174
'Flash playboy' Danny Lambo posing with girlfriend Natasha Flynn inside her £10,000 Easter gift - a chocolate bath .
He replied 'you're going to fail in life'.
5175
Upright's daughter, Jill McLain, said the rock-ribbed Republican was passionate about politics.
'We did this for him,' Mike Upright said.
5176
It is predicted he will retire with as much as $100m (£67m) in the bank.
Mayweather is currently trained by his uncle Roger (above) and his father Floyd Snr.
2 .
5177
They were treated to beautiful blue sky and sunshine throughout the show, which took place on an unseasonably warm 28 degrees celcius day.
5178
KFC has come under fire for hiring a food stylist in a bid to change its  image.
This Twitter user expressed disbelief at a chicken burger being given a cut and blow dry .
5179
On one occasion Ms Carpenter said she was forced to drink her own urine to keep hydrated while she was locked in an 'extremely hot room'.
5180
Two swimmers stand oblivious to a hammerhead shark as it hunts a fish in the shallows off Florida .
'That is a massive shark, and it came all the way up to knee level.'
5181
He said: 'Edinburgh have played some brilliant rugby this year and shown the potential of being a very, very good side.
5182
The incident in the goalless draw was not seen by match officials.
Agger is involved in another physical battle during Brondby's goalless draw with FC Copenhagen .
5183
Norris' digital communications with different men stopped a potential reunion, he also said, according to Bangor Daily News.
5184
'We hope one day we will compare to the big ones, but that's difficult.
Adam Lallana was part of the Southampton exodus as he left St Mary's for Liverpool .
5185
It was easy to sympathise with Rosberg but difficult to agree with him.
Jenson Button was demoted a place to 14th, having collided with Pastor Maldonado’s Lotus.
5186
Providenciales, which is home to about 20,000 people, consistently ranks as one of the world's best islands or beach destinations .
8. Mauritius .
5187
They hope the breakthrough will result in new therapeutic vaccines.
The research showed the new antibody therapy was effective against 195 of 237 HIV strains.
5188
Sportsmail have teamed up with Golfbidder to offer one lucky reader the chance to win a special golf prize .
5189
Mary Day (pictured outside court) fraudulently claimed £16,500 of income support and disability allowance and used the money to go on holidays .
5190
The company boss revealed Protein World has received 'threats on our head office, physical and violent threats'.
Eat less, move more.'
5191
But sources have told the Mail that she will return to Kensington Palace to recuperate before travelling to Norfolk to set up home at Anmer Hall.
5192
The channel was forced to cut to commercials as the 28-year-old recovered on the studio floor.
An ambulance was called by cancelled while the programme was delayed for nine minutes.
5193
Paying $10 a month gets you an ad-free premium service that offers song selection and offline playback on mobile devices.
Pay per song through Google Play.
5194
I am at Manchester United.
I feel really lucky to be here,' he told United Review.
I want to stay at the club for many years to come.
5195
For questions regarding the recall, you can reach the Beech-Nut Nutrition Consumer Hotline by dialing 866-674-4446 .
5196
She was told that all she needed to do was allow money to go through her bank in order to avoid paying tax and she would receive £700.
5197
An Alabama mayor was arrested and a city police chief was taken to the hospital in an ambulance after a fight at city hall on Friday.
5198
Joel Wilkinson, five, was diagnosed with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy six months ago, meaning his muscles will slowly waste away.
5199
We just want to do the right thing.'
Mr Jost said American art museums are becoming more rigorous in vetting the history of objects they acquire.
5200
'Just cause you have a nice car doesn't make you a good driver.
The car is twisting at such dangerous speeds a wheel comes loose .
5201
He said: 'Current evidence suggests that many tick-borne diseases in northern Europe are increasing in prevalence as a result of factors.'
5202
The Germany Under-21 international played for Arsenal's development squad as they lost 1-0 to Reading on Monday and is now over his injury worries.
5203
The suite's VIP guests will also receive exclusive access to the Nation Riviera Beach Club, which sits along 200 metres of private beachfront.
5204
Twenty-one-year-old Carter and 24-year-old McCassin were taken to a hospital, where they were treated for an apparent heroin overdose.
Treated:
5205
There was no goalscoring threat whatsoever.
Subs not used: Amat, Britton, Dyer, Grimes, Tremmel, Fulton .
Aaron Lennon converted the opening goal with 41 minutes gone.
5206
Miss Emily Pitts, prosecuting, said texts recovered from Burnett's phone showed the domination he asserted over his partner.
She felt sick and trapped.
5207
A missing mother and son are missing after their car was swept away by rising flood waters in Kentucky .
The city's zoo was closed because of a combination of the two events.
5208
The Cowboy Bag includes a toy sheriff's hat, a vest and a red bandana, as well as a toy pump action shotgun and a pack of plastic pistols and handcuffs.
5209
A 32-year-old man has now been arrested and charged with murder after he told police where to find the body parts.
Mr Price died last year.
5210
But despite this, the planet has got greener in the past decade, with the total amount of plant coverage increasing overall, according to one study.
5211
Spieth has had success here the previous two years, finishing ninth in 2013 and 12th last year.
The top-10 finish, Spieth said, helped his confidence and status on the PGA Tour.
5212
It is not the first animal with two legs instead of four to win plaudits in China.
Many tourists in China's Guangxi Province have been taking a detour to see the furry star hop on its front paws.
5213
Mr Keenan has now been given temporary accommodation by West Lancashire Borough Council and his father Keith has been taken in by the Stonham housing association.
5214
It has one of the most scenic ports in Greece.
A ruined Venetian fortress and dozens of chapels make you feel that this is a spiritual retreat.
5215
'Ryan has been charged with theft, and is going to court in connection with the warrant issued for failing to appear in respect of fraud charges.'
5216
Many people are still ignorant of the dangers of eating chicken despite campaigns to highlight risks, a report says (file picture)
5217
‘Playing with Jeff, it was a treat for me to see how he played the golf course,’ said McIlroy, following his round last year.
5218
Dr Adrian Quarterman, of Dundee University, is working on a laser which will convert sun beams into energy, The Times reported.
5219
The station has been accused of 'dumbing down' in the past, especially after a drive in 2011 to make it more 'accessible' to a broader audience.
5220
The story was shared 30,000 times in six hours and the ban was lifted after complaints, WKRG reported.
Eli had to undergo a tracheotomy at only five days old.
5221
Lord Hall also used the BBC Trust meeting to note the strong performance of BBC Radio 6, the digital music station which the Corporation had at one point been planning to scrap.
5222
Verona's Emil Halfredsson, who spent an unsuccessful two-year spell with Tottenham between 2005 and 2007, is one of six players to have laid on five goals in 2015.
5223
Who is this marauding midfield menace?
Van Gaal however, will say that the box-to-box Basque boy is now thriving because he has taken on board his advice.
5224
It came as sources revealed that the SNP leader is planning to ambush Mr Miliband during the next televised debate.
5225
Decades of experience:
Practices such as meditation and even simple reminders of priorities are taught to help people stay on top of their game.
5226
Nagobads said that by throwing his wallet in attempt to distract the teen he was able to get away without further harm.
'I saw the kid there.
5227
Speaking after the meeting yesterday, May said he had just been 'having a pint' with his co-stars and Mr Wilman, adding that he still didn't know what he would do in the future.
5228
Stewart's mother and former model Rachel Hunter watches from the stands .
He has just had a really intense play-off series and his injury means he will not be able to travel.
5229
But this week the 67-year-old walked free from court.
Police raided the one-bedroom bungalow in Bowthorpe, Norwich (pictured) where Christine Carriage lived.
5230
An investigation revealed that the pilot of the Falcon 50 (file image) carrying Nikolic spilled coffee on the instrument panel and turned the autopilot off as he wiped it down .
5231
Surrounded:
Before he jumped in the water, the 38-year-old driver fled from police and smashed his 2007 Infinity into a bridge .
5232
The Eshima Ohashi bridge in Japan – the third largest of its kind in the world – rises sharply so ships can pass underneath .
Monkey Bridges – Vietnam .
5233
Foston's Fine Meats in the village of Duns, Berwickshire, Scotland, is now even planning to sell mini egg sausages to add to shop's Easter offering.
5234
She wanted the US District Court in New York court to grant her ‘temporary emergency authority’ over her children and an order saying the previous ruling was ‘unconstitutional’.
5235
Pochettino has maintained that approach at Tottenham.
In Pochettino’s role as ‘head coach’ as opposed to all-round manager he has more time to work with individuals, if they go to him desiring to improve their game.
5236
They still have much to do and all results remain possible but England will be much the happier with West Indies finishing on 98 for two, still a massive 340 short of recreating Antiguan Test history.
5237
On Monday he released a video that shows him making an incredible 61-inch vertical leap.
The standing box jump - a popular CrossFit workout move - is billed as a personal best.
5238
The owner of this shed has taken inspiration from the seaside, creating a beach hut-type style .
the owner of this shed never needs to go back into their main home .
5239
Incredible pictures show a lone lioness bringing down a towering giraffe all by herself .
The lionesses are dwarfed by the giraffe but are in desperate need of food .
5240
There is not a British manager working in the Premier League who is capable of guiding a team into the latter stages of the Champions League, according to Paul Scholes.
5241
Wildlife photographer Einar Gudmann caught the violent encounter on camera.
A pair of Arctic foxes viciously fight to the death on the snow in a battle to claim a lone Vixen .
5242
Even without the Russians, the beach is a hive of activity.
The ball's in your court: Goa has a famously relaxed ambience, and is a real favourite with tourists .
5243
In the end, the decision was apparently made to off-load the cargo in the Clyde, for eventual transfer to another vessel for the Atlantic crossing.
5244
Oliveira is hoping to take his Swansea chance presented to him by the absence of the in-form Bafetimbi Gomis .
'He's been in a good moment and is important to the team.
5245
Today, seventy years on, hundreds of people sobbed as they laid flowers and flags as memorials.
They were eventually betrayed and sent to Bergen-Belsen, where she and her sister died.
5246
And it takes a lot for a track to make the cut.
One Twitter user was especially excited to hear one of her favourite bands, Phantogram, on board .
5247
A vacant commercial building is Tasmania will set buyers back $150,000, and a three-bedroom home in the same state costs around $155,000.
5248
I was in shock …
A car fire was reported at the same time in the parking garage, and police are investigating if the two incidents are related.
5249
Sam Allardyce (centre) has told West Ham co-owner David Sullivan not judge his side on 2015's results .
In my position the game of football is about reality.
5250
It was later discovered that Mr Rahman's gun was fake.
Police did not charge Mr Heneker over the incident, according to the Herald Sun.
5251
Andres Iniesta has responded to his critics by claiming he 'never went away' following a vintage first-half performance in Barcelona's 2-0 win over Paris Saint-Germain on Tuesday night.
5252
Beaverbrook turned to Getty — who said that, on the contrary, it was the only article ever written about him that was 100 per cent true.
5253
‘Leigh used to put himself around in the Leith area,’ says Tam Currie, his former coach at boys club Leith Athletic.
‘The Celtic supporters didn’t fancy him much.
5254
There are also numerous other reports of young Indian boys being beaten to death by teachers.
The child is understood to have died shortly afterwards.
5255
Davies chases a loose ball for Tottenham along with Chelsea's Willian earlier this season in a Barclays Premier League clash at Stamford Bridge which the Blues won 3-0 .
5256
A collision of colour: Singer Rod Stewart once advertised Kickers shoes...while wearing some very garish clothes .
The Kickers boots are bright red.
5257
John Carver spoke to the media after taking a training session with his Newcastle United squad on Thursday .
And Carver added: ‘It's not a nice record to have is it?
5258
But a long, intense campaign on his return to England is taking its toll on the Spaniard.
'There has been a downward trend in his stats every season at the club,' it read.
5259
As one of 79 million obese Americans, he has also become accustomed to the emotional pain of being called 'fatty' and getting verbally abused by strangers.
5260
After the case, Detective Constable Jon Green, from West Midlands Police, said: 'Woolaston targeted students at Birmingham University in order to feed his drug habit.
5261
Since Injaz was born, many more animals have been produced by genetic cloning, including one from the cells of a camel beauty pageant winner, the BBC reported.
5262
Eating the kernels without their skins can improve gut health and the ability to ward off bugs like E.coli, according to the research.
5263
Jayden Wingler of Phoenix, Arizona, was interviewed by Fox News earlier this week about a theme park accident which left him with severe burns on his legs .
5264
Hagerstown police have asked the Washington County Sheriff's Office to investigate the incident.
It is not known how many times the man was hit with a Taser, according to Holtzman.
5265
A hat-trick of tries from teenage winger Ash Handley helped Leeds to a handsome 41-16 win over reigning champions St Helens that takes them six points clear at the top of Super League.
5266
While a South Yorkshire Police spokeswoman said the council had provided them with a statement that demonstrated that permission was not granted for the tree to be cut.
5267
Celtic argued strongly that the pricing for North Stand tickets should be reviewed and lowered, to be brought closer to prices for other parts of the stadium.
5268
'They are not liable to ask me what course of action they will take.
'The SFA will give their own judgment on it.
'I don't know what the outcome will be.
5269
Labour would introduce a new legal right to ‘granny leave’ to allow working grandparents to take time off to help care for their grandchildren.
5270
'The rest of them are desperate to be hit with the ball in the face and it's poor from Yaya Toure.
'It's a huge wall.
It's not in Fernandinho's line.
5271
Holly (plain yellow bikini) recently posted this picture of her and Charlotte saying that the pair were now proud of their bodies .
Vicky Pattison .
5272
Norris-Jones was handed a restraining order banning him from spending any time alone with his mother for the rest of her life and from visiting her house in Guildford, Surrey.
5273
The Sydney doctor initially denied any of the events took place during his consultation, telling investigators that he had 'brain confusion', however he admitted that he hugged the woman as he liked helping people.
5274
Somerset's new limited-overs captain Alfonso Thomas has agreed to coach Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League this month.
5275
Both Lesley Conman and Kerry Green's young daughters were sent sexualised messages by an online pervert on Facebook - but police refused to investigate as no offence had been committed.
5276
His famous strike against England silenced those who wondered why he could never produce against British clubs.
Against Barcelona, Ibra will have special motivation.
5277
Coroner Ian Arrow concluded the cause of Liam's death was 'intra-abdominal sepsis in an individual with severe cerebral palsy.'
5278
‘We are not allowed to sell his Oscars and Baftas for legal reasons, and to be honest we wouldn’t want to,’ he said.
5279
Despite promising to stop the abuse after each attack, the man carried on abusing her until she became pregnant.
The man was sentenced to life imprisonment at Derby Crown Court (above).
5280
Bryan has now been jailed for a separate crime in which he and an accomplice subjected two women to a 'ruthless attack' in their home in Croydon, south London on December 17 last year.
5281
Jessica Howard, 23, denounced ‘night stalker’ Clive Howard, 57, for his string of assaults on six women over 28 years.
I cannot put the full extent into words.
5282
Mohamed Salah continued his scoring streak as the on-loan Chelsea midfielder struck again .
Salah turns away after scoring Fiorentina's second in their 2-0 win over Sampdoria .
5283
Jebson finally confessed to police because he felt he could die shortly 'and did not want to go into his grave knowing the murder of the two young friends was still unsolved.
5284
Anyway, the main event is up next.
In today's draw we have two Serie A sides, three time Europa League winners Sevilla and Ukrainian surprise package Dnipro.
5285
'That offence came to light when a member of the public saw the defendant and thought he was acting in a strange way.'
'You were remorseful for your actions.
5286
That promising fact is something that encourages the dancer to perform burlesque, which enables her to expose her audiences to a 'fat' body in a positive, glamorous way.
5287
The latest to open in the capital this week is the Oshun Café, which will serve £6 bowls of Brazilian superfood acai berries.
The Acai Berry Bowl Cafe will serve four types of berry bowls.
5288
It had developed a view - nourished by that inspiring performance when Ibrahbimovic was sent off at Chelsea - that PSG may be a stronger collective unit without the Swede.
5289
Addressing Mann he added: 'Neither of your daughters bears any resentment towards you and each has expressed relief that their mother's suffering has ended.
5290
Mitchell on his wedding day with wife Kerrie - he has now pleaded guilty to two counts of theft .
The charity ended up having to reimburse the disappointed winner.
5291
The album cover ended up being so extravagant that it cost £3,000, equivalent to £50,000 in today's money .
5292
Dozens more company bosses have signed a letter backing Tory economic plans – including a prominent former Labour supporter.
5293
When Judge Geoffrey Mercer QC handed Davies his sentence, Mr Hussey branded him a 'f****** joke' and called Davies a 'f****** t***'.
5294
Mario Lopez presented the award for Outstanding Morning Program in Spanish .
Entertainment Tonight WINNER .
Todd Newton, Family Game Night .
5295
A police spokesperson confirmed  that each of the 102 offences allegedly committed by the 48-year-old man had all been directed towards the same woman over the last 18 years .
5296
Three homes in Arthur Road, Wimbledon, were targeted between December 2013 and July last year, with damage caused to front doors and property worth £500 taken during one raid.
5297
Amit Yadav, 20, was high on cannabis when he crashed into an oncoming 
Taimur and Haider Kayani (pictured as children), who died in the crash, were described as 'inseparable'
5298
'It started last year — I've been in the business six years, and we had never sold a prom banner before then,' explained Remy Colin of Aerial Messages in Daytona Beach, Florida.
5299
Daub, 54, is a financial professional who also lives in Florida, according to the SEC.
Two of their firms are based in Boston.
5300
The Jessica collection launches in July 2015, featuring the £38 bra, the brazilian brief in XS-XXL, £20, and a deep suspender S-XXL, £24.
5301
'I think the next article she comes out with it's going to be hard for people to take seriously.'
Erdely wrote 405 pages of notes about the story.
5302
The free app also intuitively streams Spotify tracks that match the runner's interests based on their preferred playlists, artists and genres and listening history.
5303
Rooney is asked by Little Dec: 'Does it get annoying when people say "Rooney, Rooney, Rooney"?'
'It's great when people say it in the stands,' the United captain says.
5304
Even the sacking of Alastair Cook as one-day captain was a slow and protracted affair.
But what is does highlight is the continued fear of the maverick player.
5305
Photos taken from a Facebook count that appears to be associated with Bleary show a man accustomed to handling a weapon .
All three players were in the city for games on Wednesday .
5306
The 34-year-old star of The Only Way Is Essex has launched her updated fashion range for plus-size retailer Evans.
She said: 'You know big IS beautiful.'
5307
Real Sociedad, Tottenham and Manchester City are all interested in the player, but Sportsmail understands that United have opened dialogue with Burnley to hurry through a move.
5308
The 21-year-old's (centre) sparkling form has led his parent club Chelsea to open talks over a new deal .
Bamford has already impressed Mourinho with his attitude.
5309
The Porto squad take a training session at their Dragao Stadium ahead of Wednesday's quarter-final .
'I feel the same way Guardiola does about facing me,' he added.
5310
Critical acclaim:
Actor Michael J. Fox, a long-time friend of Williams, is well-known for his efforts to fund research into finding a cure.
5311
'I’ve been very lucky,' he told DailyMail.com.
My family started visiting me with these things called smart phones, we would talk about 'the internet' inside.
5312
Muhammad Naviede, 60, (pictured outside the Old Bailey in 1995) was killed instantly in a plane crash .
He did not book out to any other destination.
5313
Police are still working to find the owner of the goat and are asking the public for help.
Several goats live at a home nearby where Saturday's was found, police told NorthJersey.com .
5314
Hang the flowers upside down to dry before returning to the vase.
Other popular spring flowers include sweet peas and peonies.
So keep them misted .
5315
Another meal Mr Ashton and his mother were unhappy with was a lasagne that was 'full of oil', he said .
Residents at Aneurin Bevan Court pay £42 a week for food.
5316
Labour’s crime targets meant forces were aware that chief constables could get the sack if performance was repeatedly inadequate.
5317
TUCHEL TREADS A SIMILAR PATH TO KLOPP .
Tuchel has spoken of his admiration of Pep Guardiola's management of Barcelona and Lionel Messi .
5318
Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti said on Monday that the European champions would take stock of Hernandez's situation at the end of the season.
5319
In it, he claims: .
'The Glazer brothers also spent twenty minutes or so with Sir Alex and the players in their dressing room,' he reflects.
5320
The world No 2 admits that waiting makes his mind wander to whether he's going to make his dinner or not .
I weren't even gonna pot the black on one.
5321
Police have since spoken out in defense of Rapiejko's actions in the town of Marana, Arizona .
No one was injured in the post office incident.
5322
Suarez slumps down as the pain from Neymar's knee reaches him during a Barcelona training session .
‘I am very self-critical and I carry myself the same,' Suarez said.
5323
Carlo Ancelotti wants the yellow card shown to his star forward Ronaldo rescinded .
Real Madrid manager Ancelotti plans to appeal the yellow card shown to Ronaldo .
5324
The defendant claims he blacked out during the killings.
The typo-riddled note also stated that when Kacee and Ashlee learned of his ALS diagnosis, they proposed a suicide pact.
5325
Kim, who showcased her engagement ring on Tuesday, and Andy will tie the knot at Dunblane Cathedral on April 11 .
I think people are genuinely very pleased for him.’
5326
Pictures were published on Sunday of him smoking a shisha pipe and a different set of images surfaced on Tuesday of Sterling and team-mate Jordon Ibe at a shisha cafe in London.
5327
The Spain international's return to the United side coincided with two of the best performances from Louis van Gaal's team  this season against Spurs and Liverpool and the fans were quick to acknowledge Mata's influence.
5328
In 2013, the same year Nejad was finally arrested, GMP chief constable Sir Peter Fahy admitted that six out of every ten crimes were not properly investigated.
5329
The male officer was treated at the scene and later had a piece of glass removed from is head at the Prince of Wales Hospital.
5330
Goss (Fletcher 88), Grimshaw; Pereira, Van Persie (Weir 81), Januzaj .
Van Persie tangles with Fulham's Jonathan Buatu Mananga in the Under 21 Premier League match .
5331
Experts say a lack of habitats caused them to disappear from the area.
Recent UK studies of 300 woodlands have also shown red squirrels are battling against the greys with numbers rising steadily.
5332
William's father, Dean Smith, told how his son had been 'very brave' following the death of his mother.
The teenager was buried just four months after his mother.
5333
Washington lawmakers are proposing to allow limited home hash production, though butane or other explosive gases would be banned except for use by commercial producers.
5334
HMS Talent, which was launched in 1988, is a ‘hunter-killer’ submarine used to attack ships and other submarines, and also to perform a surveillance role.
5335
Prosecutors argued Yandamuri hatched the kidnapping plot to pay for a gambling habit.
She said that he had previously tried to kill himself by drinking kerosene.
5336
'The aircraft will undergo inspection.'
The airline tweeted about the event, reassuring the public that the plane had landed safely back at Dublin .
5337
The best I got was the group stage of the Champions League.
Perhaps, then, promotion and an impressive showing for his country will silence all accusations of nepotism.
5338
Ladette:
Some of the bizarre offences committed by past Birmingham residents include theft of a dead duck and riding a horse while drunk.
5339
Round the corner, you can peek into Santiago church where he was baptised.
Green and pleasant: Malaga's botanical garden plays host to exotic plants from around the world .
5340
Once the man was freed after being trapped between the vehicles, he could be seen limping with a leg injury (right, wearing black top)
5341
This is like one big art project.'
'These things will just keep changing all the time.
One of the turrets open up to reveal a beautifully designed 'ying and yang' composting toilet .
5342
And he didn't just trickle it down the fairway, either.
Watson struggled for form at the Shenzhen International, finishing T-29 at the European Tour event.
5343
The spectacular crash on Saturday wrote a green Lamborghini off and wrecked a red Ferrari.
Residents have appealed for more speed bumps in the tunnel to prevent racing from happening.
5344
'And it's finally there.'
Woods has returned to action following a break from golf he took to work on his game and rediscover form .
5345
Nick Kyrgios was responsible for the biggest upset at SW19 last year when he beat Rafael Nadal .
5346
Housing spokesman Emma Reynolds was forced on the back foot yesterday after footage emerged of her in 2013 saying: ‘I don’t think rent controls are going to work in practice.’
5347
Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard will be awarded with prestigious special merit awards by the PFA on Sunday as the curtain falls on their illustrious Premier League careers.
5348
Peter Gale was fired from his position at high-performing Nonsuch High School for Girls in Cheam, Surrey, due to 'serious breaches' in safeguarding procedures.
5349
'These events are fascinating.
Some moons in the solar system such as Enceladus (right) are covered in ice today, but believed to have oceans beneath their surface .
5350
They had to endure a tense conclusion during which Newcastle striker Ayoze Perez volleyed over from close range.
'It's a great boost for everybody.
5351
Trott, usually a middle order batsman, had been preferred to Yorkshire's Adam Lyth, still to make his England debut, and moved up to the top of the order.
5352
He was jailed for a minimum of 17 and a half years in February .
'It doesn't bear thinking about what might have happened if BT had connected the call to the police.'
5353
Vincent Kompany (centre) says his mum stopped him moving to Manchester United as a teenager .
He told the Daily Mirror: 'United asked about me, but I had other priorities at the time.
5354
Standing ovation:
Fans:
'My healing process is going forward,' Knight said.
According to Cleveland.com, one in every five Ohio women has been raped.
5355
The result looks more desperate for the animal as a second eagle swoops in to challenge him over possession of the bone .
5356
But for goalkeeper Joe Hart, all of City's starting line-up against Crystal Palace were foreign players .
Joel Ward made his 100th appearance for Palace on Monday night.
5357
The state government is also ramping up a water conservation campaign that will include billboards and radio messages through the end of June.
5358
Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez has enjoyed a fine debut season in English football, scoring 22 goals so far .
'Although I knew about his quality, playing alongside makes him makes me very happy.
5359
The new Ibrox board last month revealed they would not be drawing down the second £5 million available from Sports Direct, instead accepting a £1.5 million loan from the Three Bears consortium for short-term financing while they formulate a longer-term funding plan.
5360
He was such a content baby.
There is a vaccine available now which hasn’t been licensed yet because there are debates over price.
'But how can you put a price on life, it’s sickening.
5361
After the assault, witnesses told police they saw five subjects flee in a Rolls-Royce Phantom (example pictured)
(Markieff is now getting $8million a year and Marcus is getting $5million.)
5362
Better rivals came from Japan - the Nissan Sunny, Honda Civic and the Toyota Camry which became one of the world’s best selling cars of the 70s.
Now, hatchbacks are both popular and highly rated.
5363
'A big set of balls.
'Machida has got a very small avenue to win this fight on the feet.
'If I can do my strategy, I can win the fight.
5364
Reports emerged on social media on Thursday afternoon suggesting the Newcastle United owner was now the official owner of the Light Blues trademarks - including the 'Ready' badge and mascot Broxi Bear.
5365
In one extreme example of mimicry, the caterpillar of the Eastern tiger swallowtail looks like a snake and spits a foul smelling chemical to keep away predators.
5366
'And I just love scoring goals, the fans deserved it.
I missed the World Cup in 2006 when I felt in my heart I should have gone.
5367
A Buckingham Palace source said that the Prince remained very supportive of the project and used every opportunity – such as Pitch@Palace – to promote it.
5368
The FA, meanwhile, have failed to find an ‘in association’ FA Cup partner this season prepared to pay £9m a year, although it’s understood Wembley finally have someone at the table after well over a year’s search.
5369
After the suspected breach of exam rules, school officials were tipped off, resulting in an investigation being launched in June.
5370
According to The Bergen Record, the javelin was left sticking out of his foot while firefighters arrived to saw off the shaft of the weapon.
5371
This month's event is now booked out at the Sydney Observatory however more tickets may be released on Saturday morning if weather conditions improve.
5372
Tuttosport have an exclusive interview with Juventus striker Alvaro Morata, who says he is not interested in a return to former club Real Madrid.
5373
For that reason, City have to ask about Raheem Sterling even if Liverpool are likely to refuse to sell him.
To improve this squad, you’re talking players you can’t get.
5374
Nigel Farage, pictured after Reckless's defection to Ukip, is likely to look a little less smug after it was revealed the Rochester and Strood MP is facing an uphill struggle to keep his seat .
5375
Enner Valencia (left) is a transfer target for Chelsea and they could move for the Ecuadorian in the summer .
Valencia cost West Ham £12m and signed a five year contract.
5376
More than 60 vendors were on hand on Saturday to serve food on the street, with many eateries setting up stalls outside their shops to draw people in.
5377
Before Australia she will draw on the experience of both brothers.
Phil spent a season as assistant coach to David Moyes at Manchester United.
5378
Airline rivals Ryanair and Aer Lingus have locked horns once again on Twitter.
The UK Court of Appeal is set to rule Ryanair’s 29.82 per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
5379
MailSport looks at the reasons why Atletico Madrid’s meeting with Real Madrid can also lay claim to be the greatest city derby in world football.
5380
Mats Hummels has admitted he is considering his future at Borussia Dortmund .
The Germany defender has consistently been linked with a big-money move to Manchester United .
5381
Authorities released the sketch of Emma and the photos Friday enlisting the help of the public to locate the infant's mother.
5382
However, says she escaped such sexual abuse .
 Mariel Hemingway, 14, with her sister Margaux Hemingway in New York in 1976.
'I have a family of addicts.
5383
Downing Centre Local Court was told of the guilty plea during a brief mention on Thursday, where Lyttle was supported by family, including his younger brother Patrick.
5384
Police said officers and an Animal Control unit responded  to a 'loose livestock' report and they were able to lure the bison to a secure area.
Authorities later highlighted the dangers of the situation.
5385
She said: ‘Life is miserable, I hurt all the time.'
The Dr at the hospital tells her that she needs to lose at least 100lbs (7st) before it will be safe for her to be operated on.
5386
, WRAL reported.
'They asked me would I use my truck to go over there because crossing the railroad tracks was so bad, and so hard with the cart.
5387
Walter Smith says Ally McCoist deserves a chance to prove himself as a successful manager at a stable club.
‘I read in the paper that Ally can’t manage.
5388
The finest steam yacht in Australia .
She become a commercial cargo and fishing vessel.
The historica steam boat was initially named Ena then renamed after Aurore .
5389
'The group is on a high.
It's a team coming off the back of a great victory (beating Newcastle 1-0) and they will be buoyed for our game.
5390
Fad foods:
Karmel is out to revolutionise healthy meals for kids with the launch of a new frozen food range .
Instead, Karmel believes balance is key.
5391
Fredy Hinestroza scored the only goal of the game with only five minutes remaining in a rare attack for Getafe, after the hosts had spurned a series of chances in the first half.
5392
Clemson University president, James Clements, sent an email to students last December making clear that the party was not sanctioned by the university and that such events would not be tolerated.
5393
The video, which has had 3,477,630 on YouTube since its launch on Sunday, has quickly become one of the most viewed political broadcasts of the year - a fact which will no doubt help Clinton as she begins meeting people in Iowa today.
5394
The simple slim line belt really highlights that and we love the minimalist styling.
French Connection scuba dress with cut outs at Zappos .
5395
I thought maybe she’s pregnant,’ Murray said.
So far everything with Bjorkman has been satisfactory and he joined them in Barcelona last week at a training camp.
5396
2. New York City - 14,300 multi-millionaire residents .
Chicago - 6,000 multi-millionaire residents .
IN ASIA PACIFIC: Ho Chi Minh City - 400% growth (2004-2014)
5397
Gordon Miles, chief executive of the College of Emergency Medicine, said in September that the proposal would be ‘very tricky’.
The priority is treating them.
5398
They have an option to make the deal permanent for £1.5million but Theophile-Catherine wants to see if there are other options before committing.
5399
With a wingspan of 130 feet, the Triton is wider than commercial airliners such as the Boeing 737.
5400
Previously, he faced a battle to prise it from the hands of his Durham team-mates Graham Onions and Chris Rushworth.
‘It’s a good opportunity.
5401
Boxer Amir Khan could face a police probe after posting pictures on Snapchat while driving his car on a busy road in California.
5402
England captain Alastair Cook completed a much-needed century on the second morning of England's opening tour match in the West Indies.
5403
As seen in the video, the seesaw is made from entirely raw materials – a large trunk sits securely in between the natural split of a tree.
5404
Subs not used: Kiraly, Stafylidis, Hutchinson, Woodrow, Rodallega, Kavanagh .
It was a rare moment of quality, but edges them closer to safety.
5405
JUVENTUS (4-3-1-2): Storari; Padoin, Bonucci, Chiellini, Evra; Vidal, Marchisio, Sturaro; Pereyra (Ogbonna 82); Morata, Matri (Coman 74, Llorente 89)
5406
Also in Spain, Marca look at Real Madrid's quest to overhaul their perennial rivals at the top of La Liga.
5407
'It is something we spoke about when I was out the team: to be more aggressive and be more dominant with defenders and be more commanding and demanding,' he added.
5408
FIFA has announced that Football Association chairman Greg Dyke has returned a £16,000 watch he was given as a gift.
5409
Boeing said the redesigned bins can hold six standard-sized bags – two more than the current set-up.
The bins will likely arrive in Europe within the next few years.
5410
Kevin Keegan's name is one of five former England managers to sign a letter supporting Dyke's idea .
The FA regard loyalty caps and abusive chanting as two separate issues.
5411
Feyenoord winger Tonny Vilhena (left) is keen to quit the club this summer with Southampton on red alert .
Koeman is also bring his teammate Jordy Clasie to the south coast.
5412
The man appeared to be well as he walked around the runway talking to airport employees .
Passengers were later told about the situation.
5413
According to the infographic, try shutting off computers, TVs and smartphones before going to bed.
PILLOWS AND MATTRESSES: BETTER BEDDING .
5414
Pan Macmillan also distanced themselves from the TV chef's baby book, posting a statement to their website to say they would not be publishing the book in any format.
5415
David Cameron has urged people to vote tactically, to keep a Labour-SNP government out of power.
But she added: 'I think Scotland will become an independent country one day.
5416
The diorama shows little vignettes such as a British soldier relieving himself against a tree .
Many French attackers saw him during the battle and laughed at his actions.
5417
The German Chancellor has hired a personal Pilates trainer who will be working with her during the couple's holiday, Italian media reports.
5418
’ During his trial, Allen claimed he worked as a meat trader and a builder, and suggested his funds had come from successful gambling ventures.
5419
'But let’s be real.
'But it certainly doesn’t hurt to know that as a Stay-At-Home Mom her appraised salary is nearly double my actual income.'
5420
The newspaper says 1,204 retired people with investments between 2006 and 2008 were analysed as part of the study, which has been published in the Journal of Consumer Affairs.
5421
Kevin de Bruyne is linked with Bayern Munich as a potential replacement for the club's veteran forwards .
'De Bruyne is great, when he fits the counterattack.
5422
However, they are satisfied the position stems solely from the security attached to the loan from Sports Direct, accepted by the former regime in January.
5423
At the centre of our Milky Way, for example, a bright quasar surrounding the supermassive black hole is visible.
Shown here are gravitational waves produced .
5424
Fourth-seed Caroline Wozniacki won 7-6 (5), 6-1 against Lucie Safarova of the Czech Republic to reach the quarter finals.
5425
Sadly, owner Clem Schultz's beloved wife Geraldine died in the blast.
I had to leave her behind but I knew there wasn't anything I could do for her.'
5426
'It's time for action on dodgy pricing practices that stop people from comparing products to find the cheapest.'
Instead, customers are left feeling short-changed.
5427
Bygone era: The room, which featured stuffed lions, must have been embarrassing for animal welfare crusader Prince William .
Chnging times:
5428
A Mississippi Senator's personal assistant has been charged with trafficking drugs from China to use as payment for sexual favors.
5429
On Kelly's side: Following Friday's interview, Wallace's fellow Fox News anchor, Greta Van Susteren (above), 60, almost immediately took to her blog to chastise her colleague over his comments to Mike Gallagher .
5430
'The video assumes a very specific condition - 110lbf (50kgf),' the company said.
Samsung added that the test done by SquareTrade 'does not show the strength of the back side.'
5431
Having been labeled 'The Body' since the 1980s, Elle has had to make sure her physique is in peak condition at all times, and the Britain's Next Top Model host puts her figure down to 'variation' and 'consistency'.
5432
Dons boss Derek McInnes told the Aberdeen official website: 'The option to sign an extended contract with a fellow Premiership club was one which Nicky felt he couldn't turn down.'
5433
Police responding to news of 'an argument' at 2pm had chased Justus down the street before opening fire, according to a spokesman for Zion Police.
5434
Manhattan-based Skin Laundry says that after just ten minutes, their Light and Laser procedure will leave your skin 'glowing', while also promising that long-term use will reduce wrinkles, clear acne, and minimize scarring.
5435
Madelyn died after suffering a seizure when she was called over to her husband's bedside and was holding his hand, according to KSL.
5436
'We know we would get a tough game if we drew them in the Champions League, but everybody involved in those Barcelona vs Celtic games wants to go and play there again.
5437
'Liu Guijuan has followed industry rule and the headdresses are just for performing purpose, it has nothing to do with environmental protection,' wrote one unnamed web user.
5438
The letter was signed by: .
Simon Ascroft, headteacher, Biddulph High School, Stoke on Trent .
Emma Yates, headteacher, Hayesfield Girls’ School, Bath .
5439
Among them, the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island.
'Ethical Maldives evaluates resorts and other businesses on ethics-based criteria,' the website reads.
5440
They are asking questions, like ‘mummy, are we really monkeys,’ he told 9News.
The couple say the woman's racial slurs have led to their children asking their mother if they are 'really monkeys'
5441
The Beckham family pictured at the finish line after Romeo completed the three-mile mini-marathon .
Proud father David meets Romeo at the finish line with the rest of his family .
5442
He said Mr Johnson now understood the pair were no longer in 'competition'.
Mr Cameron said he saw his relationship with the London Mayor as 'co-opetition'.
5443
He says: 'We have the pliers, they're going to hold onto the needle which will then be smashed into my cyst with the end of a screwdriver.
5444
Belinda, 56, from Essex, admits she wishes she'd never had a facelift because of the 'horrendous' scars it left her around her ears - the result of a botched procedure she underwent in Turkey (pictured)
5445
Former Tory minister Richard Benyon accused Mr Miliband of ‘weaponising dead migrants’.
It’s very important that Libyans determine their future,’ he said at the time.
5446
His disease can only be treated with high doses of steroids and a chemotherapy-type drug .
It will also give Damon a chance to interact with other children the same as him.'
5447
In short, Fulham need a plan for next season - and quickly.
Toumani Diagouraga was harshly adjudged to have hauled down debutant James Husband, with McCormack doing the rest from 12 yards.
5448
A court heard how the stun gun was capable of administering an electrical discharge which would cause a victim to 'startle and repel'.
5449
The teen's mood then takes a more sinister turn as she declares that she will 'bring out a shotgun' if any boys come into her yard.
5450
A statement from the prison's public information office said an investigation of the incident was in the hands of the state attorney general's office.
5451
Gary Neville has hailed Manchester United as a team that is getting ever closer to being 'the real deal' after a dominant 4-2 derby victory over City at Old Trafford on Sunday.
5452
Rodgers said that lack of a second goal for Sterling would have left his player disappointed at Anfield .
5453
I’m not going to say no,’ said O’Sullivan.
O'Sullivan led 7-2 overnight and returned on Wednesday morning to win the final three frames he needed .
5454
Al-Berjawi and Sakr were also detained in Kenya around the same time, but later returned to Africa and were able to make it to Somalia, where they joined the fighting.
5455
Tony Pulis has held conversations with Peace and is adamant the chairman wants to ensure his legacy is maintained.
That’s the main point he’s made to me.
5456
But he secretly replied to the bridesmaids saying 'let's do this' - on the condition that they kept it secret from Mrs Jones.
5457
However, in early 2015, court documents revealed that Giray was basing at least part of her claim on scribbled handwritten notes her lawyers were 'confirmation that monies were provided.'
5458
Last night, Mr Robertson said: ‘Mr Macrae fell out with the SNP some time ago and even stood as a candidate against the SNP in a local by-election.
5459
Yvonne Camargo of Victorville, California, was arrested earlier in April after video surfaced of her appearing to hit a child.
5460
Mark Zuckerberg must release documents and electronic correspondence to a defense lawyer whose client has fled from criminal charges that he falsely claimed a majority ownership in the social media giant .
5461
McHenry will give a talk at MicroCon 2015 called 'Micronations that matter,' which he hopes will encourage other leaders to use their countries for a good cause.
5462
Roberto Martinez is backing Ross Barkley to become an even more influential player for Everton and England .
'He has achieved an incredible level of maturity this season.
5463
Miss Kelly described how Lee pulled up her dress, pulled down her underwear and raped her.
When asked by a police officer what he was doing, he said he was 'embarrassed' and 'fell asleep'
5464
The figures include data from last Friday, April 10, where the MIO was sent in to help at Worcestershire Royal Hospital after months of problems.
5465
An aerial view of the Shearwater military base where four British sailors are accused of assaulting a civilian .
5466
He parked and rushed over to help.
He at first tore up the ticket and threw it in a bin but later retrieved it.
He was supported by other social media users.
5467
'It depends on how well it goes.
I'm preparing myself mentally that I won't play again this season, so if I come back earlier then it's a bonus.
5468
On Friday a spokesman from the US Environmental Protection agency said that the family may have fallen ill because of the presence of a pesticide at the rented villa.
5469
Following continuous problems with crowd trouble, the Greek government has put together a new set of regulations in an attempt to crack down on violence at sports events.
5470
The current combination lacks the European Cup the other two have and a big win over Real Madrid but there is still time for them to combine the two with a Clasico final still a possibility.
5471
At the other end of the soap map, Denise Van Outen will soon be seen charging through Albert Square; the actress is to play Max Branning's new love interest, Carin Smart, in the long-running series.
5472
Audrey Bolte told the Ohio court she was expecting to see Mr. Poston but he failed to arrive for their date .
She is being held in jail on $1.5million bond.
5473
While Mr Hassan's beaten and bloody body lay undiscovered, the killers were filmed on Granger's mobile phone throwing wads of £50 notes around.
5474
It is two days since the famed 65-year-old doctor was found hanged in his Miami home.
The awards and accolades followed him from this 1967 yearbook through his professional career .
5475
Taking aim at Hillary Clinton, Cruz said in a Wednesday evening Facebook, 'Having raised tens of millions of dollars from foreign nations presents a clear conflict of interest for anyone running for President of the United States.'
5476
In the video obtained by WPTV,  Stephens can be seen pulling his bike over next to a house after he realized he was being followed.
5477
Here, Sportsmail's Oliver Todd rates the players' performances at Stamford Bridge.
RAMIRES (67, for OSCAR) 6 - Came on to act as a runner from midfield but didn’t really work as planned.
5478
John Akinde has a peculiar place in the football history books for being the first player sold by an internet vote of fans – he was a promising teenager at Ebbsfleet in 2008 when the online poll decided to let him move to Bristol City.
5479
But UK drug company Evgen Pharma has developed a stable synthetic version of the chemical that offers the potential of a pill treatment.
5480
Michael Vaughan with Peter Moores in 2008 during his unsuccessful first spell as England coach .
It’s about the players and I will carry on doing my job here.
5481
’ During the first half, a definite winner was commentator Ian Darke who had one of those moments all the men behind the lip mics dream of.
5482
Hitting the deck: An estimated one in 15 bull rides across all age groups ends in injury of some sort .
For Cody Custer, a former bull riding world champion, it is becoming too dangerous.
5483
Though the actresses highlight gender inequality in Hollywood, they also point out similar problems in government and Fortune 500 companies .
5484
The Sydney CBD will be one of a few selective Myer stores to hold a designer sale .
CBD hot spot: CBD Myer stores including Sydney (pictured), Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth will have sales .
5485
The case was not solved until the 35-year-old walked into a police station earlier this year and said: 'Please arrest me.'
5486
Stud farm owner Sonia Sharrock (right) looked relieved as she managed to save her horses from the NSW floods thanks to help from her brother-in-law Steve Spowart (left) and his surfboard .
5487
According to a casino worker, the fighting goes back to two women who clashed during the long wait for alcohol, dragging their group of friends into the conflict.
5488
But Department of Work and Pensions checks soon discovered that the woman's accounts were overdrawn, prompting social services to become involved.
5489
Lead researcher Eleanor Warren-Thomas said: ‘The tyre industry consumes 70 per cent of all natural rubber grown, and rising demand for vehicle and aeroplane tyres is behind the recent expansion of plantations.
5490
James Collins, the 31-year-old Welshman, made several important clearances in the first ten minutes for West Ham and the travelling fans responded with a chorus of ‘he’s the ginger Pele.’
5491
North West was a happy traveller on Tuesday as she arrived in Paris with her famous parents.
North West wears a bright smile upon arriving in Paris with her parents .
5492
Chelsea are looking to beat Manchester City to sign Brazilian prospect Nathan.
Nathan would join fellow Brazilians Willian, Ramires, Filipe Luis and Oscar (pictured) at Stamford Bridge .
5493
Despite defeat on Sunday, Juve are 14 points clear at the top of the league table.
Pirlo has been at Juventus since 2011, racking up 156 appearances and scoring 18 goals .
5494
Later he was a little less emotional as fans cheered his performances of hits like Roni and Rock Witcha.
​Bobby's appearance marks his first time away from Bobbi in months.
5495
'She was having a friendly conversation with him,' Yassin said.
Fohounhedo's wife Sheena (right) said the couple will have to work to get past the incident .
5496
Graeme Simpson, prosecuting, told the court Malsbury had been suffering from depression and was upset about the couple’s relationship coming to an end when she launched the attack.
5497
Mr Ritchie said the driver would be disciplined, but would not go into detail.
Ritchies Coachlines boss Andrew Ritchie said he was embarrassed by the 'idiot' driver's actions .
5498
Chris Ramsey has pledged his long-term future to QPR – insisting he will remain at the club for as long as they want him.
5499
The prodigious pumpkins displayed at this year's show were cleverly recycled by being served to the Asian Elephants at the popular Sydney zoo.
5500
92, only retired from his job as a stunt pilot two years ago.
Mr Gregory left the RAF in 1946 and spent the rest of his working life teaching art in a Hampshire comprehensive.
5501
In 2007, she helped establish the AHA Foundation, which works to protect and defend the rights of women in the West from oppression justified by religion and culture, according to its website.
5502
Court documents show the tax office launched action in November and has since lodged an application to liquidate ABBBC Pty Ltd - the company behind Ms Bines' bikini body challenge program.
5503
Tori's doctor's determined she had a severe burn and suggested they remove the damaged skin and graft skin from another area of the body, a source tells Daily Mail Online.
5504
However she insists their intention is not to harm anyone and refutes claims she is a 'poacher hunter'.
She was also deployed for one tour of Afghanistan .
5505
Arjen Robben has said he has felt 'physically disabled' during the last few weeks due to an abdominal injury .
'But now, the pains are easing - today I can laugh again.
5506
Neighbours said that 'hordes of people' were directed by police out of the area, reported The Courier Mail.
She is due to appear in the Richlands Magistrates Court today.
5507
It included numerous valuable items including a single ring worth close to £1million, as well as around 12 other valuable pieces.
5508
'In my view the question of legalizing marijuana should be a question for the states.
Asked for the same thing by Hewitt, Rubio said 'Yes, I think we need to enforce our federal laws.'
5509
Kenny Bayless refereeing Floyd Mayweather's fight against Marcos Maidana in September 2014 .
'I think they all respect me and Manny enough to give us a fair fight.
5510
A surgical unit at St Mary's Hospital, London, has not accepted new patients in more than a week after eight were found to be carrying carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae, or CPE.
5511
But in the early hours of September 28, Mrs McCarthy revealed she did not want to try to save the relationship, Norwich Crown Court heard.
5512
Amid those circumstances, finding the time to rest international players is proving increasingly difficult.
‘In three weeks, you can’t ruin too much.
5513
Her mother, Heathrow Airport worker Kirsty Lee, 25, appeared at Guildford Magistrates' Court today alongside her then boyfriend Alistair Wayne Bowen, 35.
5514
This little baby duckling is just one of the small creatures which inhabit the farm .
This pond yard out the back is where many of the birds like to hang out, and where the turtles live .
5515
He told Taunton Crown Court the 37-year-old woman visited Latheef with a stiff neck and headache.
After a number of tests, Latheef suggested he should measure her sensitivity.
5516
Under Mr Smagon's concept, a code matched specifically to your app can be printed on your favourite mug or a fridge magnet.
5517
A spokeswoman for Staffordshire Police added: 'She has been released on police bail pending further investigation until a date in June.
5518
The terrified family have fled to safety in the meantime.
They added: 'I came back a couple of minutes later, and the zoo keepers were telling people to stay away.'
5519
It is hoped the new approach will target cancer stem cells that evade conventional drugs and cause the tumour to re-grow.
5520
Eventually, in March this year, Shupe filed a police report against the child when Kaiden allegedly came home with a swollen and bruised head, bruises on his knees, and scratches.
5521
But Nasa has promised to keep the next-generation telescope on track for its October 2018 launch.
The space telescope will weigh 6.4 tons.
5522
He said: 'This is a case where the teacher has exhibited clear intolerance on the grounds of race, as well as disability.'
5523
She told Daily Mail Australia that sex outside of marriage and with underage children was 'absolutely frowned upon' and 'dealt with very severely in the community'.
5524
In the Premier League, you know how quick it is so you have yo get back to that speed.
Wilshere is hoping to make his first-team return for Arsenal in the next few weeks .
5525
Both vehicles had been caught in traffic after a cyclist was injured on a nearby road and police and the ambulance service were rushing to attend the scene.
It was obviously his pride and joy.
5526
Giroud shows his potential every week.
Coquelin (above) believes Arsene Wenger's side 'can win titles' with Giroud playing as their main striker .
5527
On Monday, he was outed for using gay hook-up app Grindr .
'Suddenly it dawned on me: I think I've seen this guy on Grindr!' Smith told the Washington Post on Wednesday.
5528
Switzerland is the world's happiest nation thanks to healthy GDP figures, strong social bonds and an increasing life expectancy, a new study of global wellbeing has revealed .
153.
5529
Jan is unsure whether she will continue to go back for more tattoos on her birthday as has become the tradition.
5530
Curiosity soon got the better of the cubs, who began playing around the water area.
'We can hear it from beyond this glass wall, it must be screaming really loudly.
5531
There have not been any concrete offers, though.
Since leaving Chelsea, De Bruyne has established himself as one of the best playmakers in the Bundesliga .
5532
Caykur Rizespor revealed on social media that Obraniak was not in any immediate danger following preliminary tests.
5533
It is the school system's first confirmed case in two years, the Washington Post reported.
Even with antibiotic treatment, people die in about 10 to 15 per cent of cases.
5534
He told Steinberg that he is now dedicated to taking education in a new direction as executive of the Jack Welch Management Institute (JWMI), which currently has over 900 students and is growing.
5535
A memo has revealed that Robert Bates,73, who has been charged with second-degree manslaughter in the death of Eric Harris, was given special treatment when he was admitted into the Deputy program.
5536
Bright said she teased the Labour leader over his unlikely sex symbol status.
Bright interviewed the Labour leader as part of the 'useyourvoice' Twitter campaign which encourages young people to vote.
5537
'TNT is an explosive.
Police are now investigating where Eloise purchased the pills, which cost around £70 for 100 capsules containing 200mg of DNP.
5538
For the peaceful scene actually features a carefully painted female model.
He has been painting for more than 20 years.
5539
His mother previously said: 'He left a suicide note saying he was taking his own life as it was easier than what he was going through.'
5540
However, the intervening 499-day period had been one dominated by Manuel Pellegrini's side as they won the league title and the Capital One Cup last season.
5541
The star's ad in the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition was the first of its kind - no other plus size model had ever appeared in the annual issue .
5542
I'll be watching like everyone else.
Steve Redgrave famously returned to success despite retiring and vowing never to return to action .
5543
At Dolgellau Magistrates Court, Garrod had claimed he was rushing to work after a colleague had contacted him before he set off and told him that a cyclist was injured on the A470 at Dolgellau in north Wales.
5544
She filed a unfair dismissal complaint with the Fair Work Commission.
While she cross examined, Ms Nesbitt argued the text had been taken out of context.
5545
Mutombo was an NBA All-Star  famous for swatting away shots and wagging his finger at the oppositition .
5546
2013–NOW: Bayern Munich .
Guardiola gives instructions to Bayern Munich's Thomas Muller during their Champions League defeat .
5547
But Benaud was their spiritual forefather.
When Benaud welcomed viewers, they were able to relax: the cricket was about to begin.
5548
We stayed in a Vista three-bedroom mobile home.
When the Greenwoods weren't in the pool they spent time on the beach in the stunning port of Collioure .
5549
In a video that emerged yesterday, Mr Balls can be seen telling a local BBC radio station that abolishing the status altogether 'will probably end up costing Britain money because some people will leave the country'.
5550
Crystal O’Connor, of Memories Pizza, dismissed discrimination concerns, saying the law is not targeting gays - it merely helps people that have strong religious beliefs.
5551
Gareth Bale (right) appears to have picked up a foot injury during Real Madrid's training session on Tuesday .
5552
And espressos are best paired with chocolate truffles or a mini raspberry coulis.
Cortado: A Spanish version of the macchiato made with espresso and a small amount of steamed milk.
5553
Miss Sturgeon’s new look is a world away from her appearance in 2010 when she modelled clothes made from blankets in a charity event.
5554
Ms Sheppard said a woman behind the wheel of the car allegedly tried to ram her as Mr Mcinerney ran for cover at a nearby petrol station.
5555
Brendan Rodgers has insisted that Raheem Sterling will not be sold this summer, even if he fails to agree a new long-term contract at Anfield.
Expect City to make their move early in the transfer window.
5556
However, waiting would mean missing out on the fun of living with an entirely new, cutting-edge gadget right now, and for early adopters, that will be too much to bear.'
5557
Car tax would rise by £25-a-year.
Mr Clegg said adopting a 'reasonable and fair' approach to the policy had resulted in the estimated revenue decreasing.
5558
The Tottenham striker is nominated for both the PFA Player and Young Player of the Year awards .
5559
The California firm said it will announce a 'home battery' and a 'very large utility scale battery' in a letter sent to investors.
5560
But despite a drive towards luxury, bosses insist the company is not trying to breakaway from its most reliable consumer.
5561
New York state senator Jeffrey Klein has apologized to Republican political strategist Susan Del Percio (pictured) after a tweet showed a search for 'hot' pictures of her .
5562
The 33-year-old went public about it as she wanted to help remove the stigma that women can feel about having IVF treatment .
Support networks are so important.
5563
Today, the broken down remains of the park are tourist attractions in their own right, with many of urban photographers keen to take snaps .
5564
They already have homes in California, France and Dubai .
Estate agents have estimated the property could be worth as much as £42 million when completed.
5565
It's good that he has a thirst to improve, as do a lot of the players.
He said: 'There's certainly not pressure (on the strikers) from me.
5566
Sportsmail's boxing correspondent Jeff Powell looks ahead to Saturday's mega-fight at the MGM Grand after witnessing Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao's grand arrivals in Las Vegas.
5567
Hero:
'They looked like they were doing about 30 mph and turned right off the wharf, right into the water,' said fisherman Ray Prince, 33.
5568
A spokesman for Pacquiao's promoter blamed technical difficulties for the cancellation, partly due to the large number of boxing writers and broadcasters who were on the call.
5569
US authorities have confirmed that the highly toxic pesticide methyl bromide caused a Delaware family to become seriously ill at a U.S. Virgin Islands resort, and that the chemical was used at the resort several times in the past year, officials said Tuesday.
5570
An officer noticed ulcers on the back of the 200-pound woman's legs and that body fluids were staining the sunken seat of her chair, according to the police report.
5571
Senior officials from the Secret Service and Capitol Police briefed top House members behind closed doors.
'That's inexcusable,' Chaffetz said.
5572
'He was a very popular player among his peers,' football manager Matt Lavin told AAP.
Mr Lavin said the hooker started with the club in 2014 after playing for the nearby Northern Lakes Warriors.
5573
Police are investigating the alleged murder of Syrian-born imam Abdul Hadi Arwani .
Police standing outside the An-Noor cultural centre in Acton earlier this week .
5574
Set in a remote valley, the Hobbit-inspired guest house - and tiny village - offers visitors the chance to escape the everyday grind .
5575
But the list of shame does expose a flaw at the heart of his argument.
Wenger (left) watches on from the touchline as Arsenal face Monaco in the Champions League last month .
5576
Dr Oz, 54, is the vice chairman and professor of surgery at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons.
For the past five years, he's been the host of The Dr Oz Show.
5577
Blanke said the system mimics the sensations of some patients with mental disorders or of healthy individuals under extreme circumstances.
5578
'It is people smuggling, no more and no less,' he told the newspaper.
This week the victims of the worst-ever migrant disaster in the Mediterranean were buried  in Malta .
5579
But replacing batteries is becoming more and more difficult.
Manufacturers are increasingly building batteries into phones so that owners can’t remove them.
5580
She added that, in the Ancient Greek world, the word 'lesbian' actually meant a woman performing an intimate sex act on a man.
5581
Aston Villa Cup hero Jack Grealish has become the latest young Barclays Premier League star to be accused of getting high on 'hippy crack'.
5582
Authorities in Muskogee, Oklahoma announced on Wednesday that they were searching for other potential victims of William 'Frankie' Dugan, 29, and 32-year-old Valerie Ojo.
5583
When Google launched Face Unlock it was criticised by security experts because it could be bypassed by holding static photos up to the phone or tablet's camera.
5584
With heavily armed militants taking up positions on ledges overlooking the crowd, the young men and boys jostle to ensure they get the best view of the murder .
5585
Instead he praised the 5,000 Sunni tribal fighters who have reportedly enlisted to help defend Ramadi and other strategic towns in Anbar province.
5586
'It's a great opportunity to raise awareness for the charity, by advertising these designs on women of all different shapes and sizes, promoting a diverse and body positive campaign for a great cause.'
5587
Home advantage may prove decisive and Farrell cites the Twickenham factor as a major fillip for his side ahead of the tournament.
5588
Former national security chief Zhou Yongkang is embroiled in the biggest corruption case since Mao Zedong's widow (pictured right) went on trial with the rest of the 'Gang of Four'
5589
Rigor mortis was setting in when he took over the club, but now the muscles are being flexed.
He was also caretaker manager after Martin O’Neill left and nearly got the job permanently.
5590
But the league leaders face second placed Arsenal, in a clash that could prove pivotal in the title race on April 26 and Costa is said to be determined to play.
5591
Saks Fifth Avenue RED Faux Leather Biker Coat at Saks Off Fifth (now $93.60)
Eugenie has been in New York for the past year, working for an online auction house .
5592
For Sean Dyche and his side, their season starts now.
Diego Costa, Sergio Aguero and Alexis Sanchez have all done well but those two have been consistently excellent.
5593
A Wisconsin sex offender traveled to the Middle East to try and join ISIS, but came back after he failed to cross the Turkey-Syria border, authorities have claimed.
5594
Olive Fowler was caught by police at JFK airport on April 12 after taking a Caribbean Airlines flight from her hometown in Guyana, South America, to New York .
5595
Villa will be tough.
Gerrard celebrates with Rafa Benitez after inspiring Liverpool to victory over West Ham in the 2006 Final .
Newcastle is next.
5596
Card details are stored securely on the app and payments can be made as soon as they have finished shopping and want to leave the store.
5597
Colonel Tim Collins – formerly of the 1st Battalion Royal Irish Regiment – described the decision to pursue General Kitson as strange.
5598
In scenes that harked back to a bygone age, the perfectly restored steam engines were out in force on the scenic railway for the three-day Spring Steam Gala .
5599
'This is the kind of track we play in the dressing room, but it's not my cup of tea really!
Baines admits that he doesn't know any of One Direction's songs despite their global success .
5600
Barcelona star Neymar feels his team's Champions League tie with Paris Saint-Germain will prove a real footballing 'spectacle'.
'PSG are a great side with plenty of individuals.
5601
Sharifi discovered Raymond's body in a rain culvert after the boy's mother called to ask him if he'd seen her son, according to an affidavit, the Dallas Morning News reported.
5602
She said: 'I basically wrote that people should never get judged for the size and what they look like because everyone is beautiful'.
5603
The lunar eclipse will occur when the moon passes behind the Earth, into its shadow.
The partial phases will be visible on April 4 just before the sun rises in the US, Space.com reported.
5604
Richie Benaud, pictured at the SCG in January 2013, revealed late last year that he had skin cancer and was receiving radiation treatment, admitting that 'as a kid we never ever wore a cap' but using the opportunity to advise all Australians to cover their heads .
5605
The mother strangled the infant and drowned and strangled the daughter, Palm Bay Police Chief Mark Renkens said, according to Florida Today.
5606
He is accused of being involved in a plot to fix lower league football matches .
A national newspaper then became involved, the court was told, and Sankaran arrived in the UK in November 2013.
5607
'I wouldn't let him drink the bubble solution, therefore I'm an #a**holeparent,' wrote another, next to a picture of more tears.
5608
Kantar Worldpanel said Aldi had recorded double-digit growth for the past four years.
Lidl saw sales jump by almost 12 per cent over the period to secure a 3.7 per cent market share.
5609
Inter are also interested in a deal for midfielder Yaya Toure, pictured celebrating a goal against Sunderland .
5610
Liverpool have been frustrated in their pursuit of Norberto Neto from Fiorentina, who is destined for Juventus.
MEMPHIS DEPAY, PSV EINDHOVEN .
5611
Inevitably, there will be players who Rodgers would like to sign that won’t consider joining Liverpool simply because they are not in the Champions League but the manager believes they have done enough since he arrived to withstand this season’s setback.
5612
He was the first US military casualty in Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2004 .
I realized that this was something that I held within myself.
5613
Her organization's first seven days afloat were an experiment in rebranding a four-decades political veteran as a grinning grandma tuned in to the concerns of average voters.
5614
THEY CLAIM: The textured side exfoliates dirt and impurities, while the soft side cleanses and removes make-up.
The magnolia extract refines and improves the skin.
5615
Game of Thrones star Kit Harington told host Seth Myers that Belfast is 'wonderful for two or three days'
Harington added: ‘They’ve got a wonderful tourist board.
5616
Gypsy groups have launched a campaign to remove the definition of them as 'swindlers' from the  Spanish dictionary.
5617
Nepal ranked 90th with residents being able to visit 37 countries without a visa .
Somalia, (left), was ranked 92nd, allowing visa-free access to 32 countries.
5618
She added: 'I felt that there was a hole in the law, and it needed to be plugged, and it was up to me to do it because no one else was going to do it for me.'
5619
If we try and stop her we fear she will eat something with chemicals in it.’
The family will find out this month if Jessica is on the autistic spectrum, which is often linked to pica.
5620
While the text recommends this as a way of relieving headaches brought on by alcohol, it is not known if it had any effect.
It says: 'the eye...
5621
Rasmila Awal said she could hear her baby crying from the ruins of her home.
An solider holds baby Sonit after he was plucked to safety from his wrecked home unhurt .
5622
Durst was arrested early March 15 on the Los Angeles warrant and arrested separately on the weapons charges the next day.
5623
Asbaby was seen at the weekend attacking tourists, eating sandwiches, drinking from water bottles and even trying to steal a woman’s handbag.
5624
RANGERS: April 5 Hearts (h); April 9 Queen of the South (a); April 12 Raith (h); April 15 Livingston (a); April 18 Dumbarton (a); April 25 Falkirk (h); May 2 Hearts (a)
5625
Sherwood revealed his 'win bonus' to the assembled media in reference to Pye's letter .
Pye applied for the role when Paul Lambert was sacked but was pipped to the post by Sherwood .
5626
Chihira has appeared at exhibitions and events, but this is the first time it will provide customer service.
Ms Chihira uses sign language to introduce itself to humans.
5627
Sportsmail takes a closer look at the trio battling to become the most powerful man in English cricket.
He may decide he’s enjoying his media career too much to risk entering firing line.
5628
'My motions will control them.
Eliana Pereira Mecham gestures while interacting with RealSense Technology at the Intel booth during the International CES
5629
Some 30 children a week are diagnosed with cancer – that’s more than 1,500 a year – and 250 of them will die every year.
She is a fighter,’ Debbie says.
5630
The action group Stop Killing Cyclists has organised a protest at the scene on April 20 at 6pm.
The incident has prompted cycle campaigners to organise a 'vigil and die-in' at the site .
5631
United will head to the US for a summer tour and are expected to have to wear their existing Nike kit.
5632
Their actions have no place in ZBT or anywhere, and they will not be tolerated.
Three members of the University of Florida chapter have been expelled.
5633
'I would like the sculpture to be related to Nyngan on the Bogan River, I have used the fishing theme and I would like to see it located on the eastern side of the Peter Sinclair Bridge opposite the Tritton Mine Village,' Mr Bourke said.
5634
The cheeky African elephant has subverted the resort's efforts to keep him from emptying their pools .
'He just cannot resist the cool, clear water of our pool.'
5635
The new 2.0 TFSI S line Quattro (pictured) is fun to drive with lively acceleration that takes it from rest to 62 mph in just 6.1 .
GOOD .
5636
Obama attempted to copy the deep voice and South Carolina accent of the fictional Commander-in-Chief, who is known for scheming his way into the nation's highest office through deceit and violence.
5637
The father, who works as a florist arranging intricate displays, was greeted with a letter from code enforcement city officials one day later saying that his creation must be scrapped.
5638
Whittingham has been a constant presence for Cardiff since moving from Aston Villa in 2007 .
Jordan Rhodes (Ipswich Town, Rochdale, Brentford, Huddersfield Town, Blackburn Rovers)
5639
Dortmund's 
Veteran midfielder Sebastian Kehl, on as a substitute, celebrates scoring a stunning volley on Tuesday .
5640
PSG striker Edinson Cavani is considering his options and could be set for a move away from Paris .
Everton have interest from clubs in midfielder Mohamed Besic.
5641
The English trio are joined on the shortlist by Leinster captain Jamie Heaslip and Clermont No 8 Fritz Lee.
5642
Instead, genetics and non-shared-environment factors had the largest effect on the children’s motivation to learn, whereas the shared environment had negligible impact.
5643
It has traveled longer than any space mission in history to reach its primary target - with its pedometer measuring more than three billion miles (4.8 billion km).
5644
Suphaporn Singnakphum stands amongst lush low-light plants in an underground garden in a huge fossil passage that adjoins the inflow entrance of Tham Khuon Xe .
5645
She said: 'People aren't as aware of the risks as they should be and alcohol is too cheap.
'I wasn't found for three days,' she said.
5646
Ms D'Alessandro said the Maroubra community were rocked by the discovery of the little girl's body last year.
'It's horrible, just awful,' a witness, Monica, said.
5647
The truck's driver pulled over to the side of the road after 100 metres and blamed Bazarov for causing the incident.
5648
When it comes to sun cream, experts advise playing it safe and restocking your supllies to ensure skin is properly protected from damaging damaging UVA and UVB rays .
5649
The England cricket team's involvement with multi-billion-pound fraudster Allen Stanford — an all-time low point — has been defended by West Indies cricket legend Sir Curtly Ambrose.
5650
Heroic:
The dog appeared to be hit with hammer in a mercy killing.
Theia is receiving care at WSU's Veterinary Teaching Hospital in Pullman.
5651
The Manchester derby will be more like El Clasico, with 14 native Spanish-speaking players due to be involved.
5652
'She would take on "boy" personas, and just always want to play with boy things,' said Joe.
Jacob's parents explained that their son's behavior wasn't just that of a typical tomboy.
5653
‘As yet, this approach must be seen as experimental but it potentially represents a new way of harnessing the power of the immune system against cancer.’
5654
In a survey conducted by Direct Line, adults in the UK cited not being able to sleep as the thing that stressed them out the most .
5655
We speak to people from companies who have team building days.'
Of course he wanted to put his mark on the club so you can understand it but I think it backfired.'
5656
The tweets followed after emergency services were called to the course after reports of a man being bitten on the leg shortly after 4pm.
5657
Detectives launched a major murder investigation and the Audi was found abandoned in Ladywood, Birmingham, late on Friday night.
5658
But I think living alone should be celebrated!'
She believes the stigma is shifting and more people are celebrating solo-dwelling as a triumph .
5659
1950s .
1960s .
Experience the almost untouched beauty of the Spanish peninsula with a one-of-a-kind lodging, which starts at £290 per night.
5660
‘The Department has advised that drinking the Class A recycled water may have led to a slightly increased risk of gastro,’ the principal warned.
5661
In addition the research revealed that nurses who worked longer hours were more likely to suffer 'fatigue and decreased levels of alertness, potentially resulting in more adverse effects'.
5662
According to new research, 61 per cent of US adults have admitted that they don't extend invitations to friends and family because of their 'home shame'.
6.
5663
Benzema, who picked up the injury in Tuesday's 0-0 Champions League quarter-final first leg draw at Atletico Madrid, should be fit for the return game at the Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday.
5664
This map details some of the predicted affects of climate change in different continents.
However the latest study claims that the worst-case scenario is unlikely to take place .
5665
Mr Murphy unveiled Labour’s Scottish election manifesto in Glasgow as he declared ‘the party of John Smith and the party of Donald Dewar is back in business’.
5666
Queens Park Rangers manager Chris Ramsey claims that covert racism still exists in football boardrooms and that the implementing of a Rooney Rule could help raise awareness of the issue.
5667
Sara Errani defeated Poland's Radwanska the 7-6 (8/6) 6-4 on Wednesday in two hours and eight minutes .
5668
Ms Moric told her fans that she was 'shocked' by the suicide claims.
Italian media claimed Ms Moric had tried to take her own life in 2009 after taking an overdose.
5669
The picture appeared in the opening on the right - the TV is now being sold at an auction .
Also going under the hammer are the first fax machine and a prototype colour television set.
5670
In a statement to detectives, Garza blamed Riojas.
Garza said he initially ran because he feared the officer would discover he was wanted on outstanding warrants.
5671
'If there's a tomorrow when we're not together, there's something you must always remember,' she wrote, beneath a smiling photo of herself.
5672
'She was distressed and crying in Hancock Prospecting's offices.
Ms Rinehart said she printed important emails needed to be kept, but she denied storing them in the office.
5673
When one of Miss Mulligan’s films is on television, it is played by her carers, who wrote to Miss Mulligan to tell her ‘Nans is very proud’ of her when she won a BAFTA award for An Education.
5674
I don't think it is nice for me to talk about a player who plays for FC Tokyo.
The 22-year-old has a shot at goal during Japan's Asian Cup match against Palestine in January this year .
5675
She also visited the hotel last December for a meeting of the board of the 1851 Trust, the sailing charity of which she is patron.
5676
LaTasha Gosling, 27,  and her two daughters, Janyaa, 4, and Jenika, 8, and her son Landen, 7, (above) were discovered early Wednesday .
A memorial has also been set up outside the family's home.
5677
The vote was clear.
But SNP sources told the BBC’s Newsnight that since the 2011 Fixed-term Parliaments Act, this is no longer the case.
5678
Botham's record had been equalled much earlier in the day when Anderson had Marlon Samuel caught in the gully by James Treadwell.
2.
5.
6.
7.
5679
'For 20 years Lindsay's family have had to live with the pain and the hurt of not knowing what happened to her as her killer continues to enjoy their liberty.'
5680
He is being held on a $15,000 bond.
Lake County NAACP president Jennifer Witherspoon said his relatives have asked her organization to speak on their behalf.
5681
The Greeks launched wide-scale campaigns to dissuade drunkenness, with playwrights using gods in their productions to warn against alcohol abuse.
5682
Virgin's food and beverage service has been tailored to the time of day and the duration of the journey .
5683
Niamh added, 'I can’t remember the number of times I said "this is so freaky".
Since meeting, Niamh and Karen - who are both single - say they've been chatting on Facebook 'constantly'.
5684
Wolfsburg have also beaten them, but it's not all that easy.'
But those great moments seem a long time ago now and the fixture is harder to hype without so much riding on it.
5685
And when the flowers open their '­alabaster petals' — as the novelist Balzac put it — camellias are positively regal.
Camellias are amazingly versatile.
5686
Casey only learned he was in the field for the Masters himself last Sunday, and is continuing his welcome revival this season with another good showing.
5687
His new deal will run to 2020.
Raheem Sterling has rejected a new deal at Liverpool but talks are expected to resume in the summer .
5688
In a double hit for thousands of holidaymakers trying to leave Britain today, strikes by French air traffic controllers and new border control checks threaten severe delays.
5689
Flowers was driving down Chili Avenue near Route 390 in Rochester on March 9 when he dropped a lit cigarette into his shirt, causing several layers of his clothing (pictured at the time) to burst into flames .
5690
Cleanup of the area was underway on Tuesday.
Cleveland fire spokesman Larry Gray told local media the falling bricks might have been a 'freak accident.'
5691
They then used the models to look at predictions of extreme weather between 2006 and 2100 under an emissions scenario that is expected to lead to 2°C of warming around the world.
5692
Jimmy was invited for trials by Lancashire and that was that.
Jimmy’s been his own best coach.
He was the kind of player you might get from Pakistan.
5693
Among the items they sell are a temporary filling material as well as cap and crown cement.
It also found that some NHS dental surgeries can have waiting lists of up to two years.
5694
Inside, the house is just as breathtaking.
The large lounge spaces are complete with stunning fixtures, like this fireplace, and the entire home retails for €38 million ($42 million)
5695
The researchers say only two programmes are supported by gold-standard data showing that enrolled dieters - on average - lost more weight after one year than those either dieting on their own or getting health and diet information elsewhere.
5696
He means every word he says.
He added that politicians, in particular Labour, ‘should stop talking about the gap between rich and poor.
5697
However, the fundraising site later shut down the couple's page for violating the company's terms of service.
Oregon began allowing same sex marriage in May 2014 .
5698
Remarkably, the camera remains intact despite falling from the great height.
As the camera plummets to the earth, the footage of the free fall becomes even more blurry .
5699
Police alleged Ms Hannibal, of Cammeray, supplied a number of 'purple speaker' pills between 2pm and 3:30pm on November 7, the day before the Harbourlife dance festival near Mrs Macquarie's Chair where Ms Bartter collapsed.
5700
Current interim chairman Paul Murray cited the signing of the quintet without undergoing medicals as an example of the ‘recklessness’ that preceded regime change.
5701
She was killed on impact after suffering horrific head injuries.
Nurhayada is expected to be buried in her father's hometown in Muar.
5702
The large Android shape covers a mountainous region near the city of Shahpur but residents may not approve of the addition because it is shown urinating on an Apple logo.
5703
Earlier this week, the Queen appeared unusually nervous and was spotted crossing her fingers as she cheered on her horse in the Royal Box at Newbury.
5704
A Shetland pony has been battered to death with a breeze block in the middle of the night in a brutal attack, devastating the toddler who played with her every day.
'Taffee was a tiny pony.
5705
Asked if the punch was more 'of a jab', she added: 'I meant he was looking to take aim.
'He was looking himself and inspecting it and asked if anybody thought the fracture had moved.
5706
Groening told the court on Tuesday that he is 'morally guilty' but not directly responsible for any deaths .
'The process was the same as Auschwitz I.
5707
In a statement sent to Daily Mail Online, Celebrity Cruises said: 'Those affected by the short-lived illness responded well to over-the-counter medication being administered onboard the ship,' the company said.
5708
The top country for illegal downloads of Game of Thrones episodes was Brazil, which accounted for almost one million of them, followed by France in second, the US, Canada and the UK.
5709
Report author Robin Simcox said: 'The focus has been about the so-called mass surveillance by GCHQ and the NSA but these leaks have allowed extremist groups and jihadists to look at our capabilities – what we can and can't do – which has given them a great insight.
5710
Carphone Warehouse's boss Graham Stapleton said the iD website will launch tomorrow, where people can register their interest.
5711
Schumacher Junior is making his debut in single-seater racing after a successful karting career .
Mick makes few errors.
5712
Le'Veon Bell will appeal the NFL's decision to ban him for the first three games of the season .
Bell plans to appeal the decision, says ESPN's Adam Schefter who broke the story.
5713
Oulare is the son of former Guinea international Souleymane Oulare and has represented Belgium at Under 18 and 19 level before making his U21 debut against Moldova in March.
5714
As England prepared to fly west on Thursday, Moeen revealed he expects to be fit again in time for Worcestershire's first LV= County Championship match at home to title-holders Yorkshire on April 12.
5715
They also face charges in relation to a short-barreled rifle allegedly discovered at the property that did not meet the state minimum length.
5716
'We can only trust in God for a miracle at this time.
'However, Bobbi Kristina is presently embarking on a rehabilitation process and the quality of her life will not be known for years to come.
5717
'Now he had really grown into a handsome young man and I was very attracted to him right from the start – plus I had that feeling that he was also liking me too.
5718
Speaking to the New York Daily News, she described how after the blunder she broke down in tears and 'wanted to go in a wormhole and disappear.'
5719
Ms Woodford was found dead three days after being reported missing by her family and was said to have suffered 'massive injuries'.
He will appear at Cardiff Crown Court tomorrow for a plea hearing.
5720
A Briton jailed in Burma for using an image of the Buddha to promote his bar has been ‘abandoned’ by the Foreign Office, according to human rights campaigners.
5721
Senior ranger Tom Nichols said the animal had been in the area for ‘a couple of weeks’.
‘A trap was set about a week before the croc was caught.
5722
Police swooped and arrested the gang and found 2.2 million in counterfeit euros (around £1.5million) as well as £52,000 of legitimate euro notes.
5723
This might be remedied by leaving the wine in the bottle for less time.
This is because alcohol, which is solvent, dissolves the flavours from inside the bottle.
5724
During his response, she could be heard shouting: ‘It’s not the truth.’
Outside the studio, Miss Prosser said she had been ‘emotionally moved by David Cameron using vulnerable people’.
5725
Mariah is worth about $225 million.
Mariah has admitted she never wanted children and Nick is going to tell the world why she felt that way.
5726
'Anti-homeless spikes show complete disregard and lack of respect for homeless people who struggle every day,' she said.
'Spikes have been installed, presumably to prevent people sleeping there.
5727
In the new chapter, shared by the Huffington Post on Friday, she suggested that the birth of her granddaughter made her think about the future of all children and had motivated her political plans.
5728
Customers were known to call her 'Miss Ann.'
Price was known for her no-swearing policy and care in cooking up every plate of burger and fries herself .
5729
Gael Monfils also went the distance after coming from a set down to defeat Andrey Kuznetsov 4-6 6-3 6-4 while Gilles Simon overcame wildcard Benjamin Balleret in their first round match.
5730
In the video, the man mumbles and stares ahead while the laser-guided sight of a police Taser is clearly visible on his T-shirt .
5731
The cubs were taken to the Pocono Wildlife Rehabilitation and Educational Center in Stroudsbury, where they are now being cared for.
5732
The revelations come after the Royal China Club, a restaurant in central London, was raided by inspectors after boasting of selling shark fin soup and another dish made from ground shark teeth .
5733
Luongo was player of the tournament during Australia's successful Asian Cup in January and the 22-year-old creator has decided to play in the Barclays Premier League next season.
5734
This fellow East Cobb family runs their own home-based business.'
He posted $5,000 bail but his wife remains behind bars on $10,000 bond and her mother is held on $2,500 bond.
5735
Acara will turn 10 next month and is an eager-to-please orangutan that enjoys learning, Gordon said.
The first step was to teach Acara to be gentle with the infant.
5736
Neighbors said they were shocked by the events and called the area safe.
Stephen Wiseman lived next door to the family for almost ten years.
5737
Police in Ragusa, a Sicilian port town, arrested three Syrian men who were at the helm of the Turkish-flagged yacht attempting to reach the Italian coast.
5738
The 44-year-old, who married Alice Arnold in a private ceremony earlier this year, said that it was 'exhausting' to be constantly asked about being gay.
5739
Dr Patel said wholewheat bread is a healthier choice for your teeth, with studies suggesting those who eat a large number of whole grains have a lower instance of gum disease .
5740
Ellanora Baidoo hopes to finally begin divorce proceedings with her husband by sending him Facebook messages containing her petition to end their marriage .
5741
The probe is currently on the dark side of Ceres and won't emerge until April.
Scientists have speculated that the interior of Ceres is rocky with a layer of water and ice.
5742
A former Kansas elementary school teacher was arrested this week and charged with child sex crimes.
Sanchez - whose maiden name is Olsen - is married and is believed to have three children.
5743
'This is an honor to be here for him during his last moments,' Chief John Roche told WTNH.
The police department said it was an honor to work beside Zeus.
5744
Dr Christopher Valentine (pictured) used his iPod to take illicit photos of patients, a tribunal heard .
She seemed quite startled.
5745
Liverpool striker Sturridge was left out of the squad entirely on Monday after being taken off at Blackburn .
5746
The family make their way into the cathedral.
Holy day: The family, led by King Felipe, meet the cathedral's priests ahead of the Easter service .
5747
Francis plans to work for the $40billion taxi firm during the sport's off-season - a rare occurrence considering the money that professional players earn today .
5748
He said it was 'too soon to make any comment' about whether the student had expressed remorse for the noose episode.
5749
Controversial UK commentator Katie Hopkins has written that Australia's approach of having 'balls of steel and tiny hearts' should be followed as policy by the Brits .
5750
When Paul Gregory, 51, applied to renew his blue badge, he claimed exercise left him breathless, despite being a keen walker and member of a mountaineering club.
5751
Famous buildings given such designation include Radio City Music Hall, St. Bartholomew's Church, Federal Hall, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the New York Stock Exchange, Coney Island's Parachute Jump, and the Alice Austen House on Staten Island.
5752
Following the sentencing, Ms Carlton branded their punishment 'disgusting' and said she wanted to 'see them go to jail'.
'They are pair of sick ghouls.
5753
And it is in getting players to that next stage that Chelsea, so far at least, have struggled.
Take a look at the side that played in the 2010 FA Youth Cup triumph over Aston Villa.
5754
Captaining Watford in the Premier League next season, Deeney admits, would be the crowning glory after three years' hard work following his release.
5755
In a comment piece in the Los Angeles Times last week director Mr Gibney said: 'In the past, critics of the church have called for its tax exemption to be revoked because it is not a 'real religion'.
5756
The revelation comes after experts recently proclaimed that the majority of people aren't doing enough to ensure that their sheets are clean and hygienic.
5757
Van Velzen lines up his first free-kick of the day as the Liverpool stars watch on .
'Seeing the players' faces when they saw me shoot was also really satisfying.'
5758
He was dressed in jeans, this and that'.
Marouane Fellaini (right) poses with his twin brother Mansour during his days as an Everton player .
5759
Upton Park has seen the most goals from indirect free-kicks this season (6).
West Ham have won only one of their last nine Premier League games (D3 L5).
5760
The NFL is said to be within five years of having a permanent franchise in London.
Tottenham's new state-of-the-art stadium is due to be ready in time for the 2018-19 season .
5761
Hernandez is currently in prison during his trial for the June 2013 shooting death of Odin Lloyd, who was dating his fiancée's sister.
An eBay user posted what appears to be laminated badge that featured a photo of former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez and identifying information about the 25-year-old .
5762
'As farmers we have to deal with traceability.
The New Zealand meat industry has taken the step to ensure its lamb can be sold in Muslim markets round the world.
5763
Dr Kubicki said that the amphibian sounds more like an insect than a frog, which may explain how experts missed it during their extensive survey.
5764
medical director Paco Biosca to have the mask fitted
The 27-year-old played on for the entire 90 minutes at Stamford Bridge last Saturday despite the knock .
5765
The photographer said the project helped her deal with her own emotions.
She titled each image after the first name of the woman posing to help create greater intimacy.
5766
She explained: 'We couldn't think of another way it could have got into the house, but goodness knows where it had been for the week we lived there before he spotted it.
5767
Travel site, WanderBat, has found Qatar Airways to be the world's most reliable airline .
Emirates - 97                                                            13.
5768
Casillas handed the supporter his Real Madrid shirt during the half-time interval after previously making sure the injured fan was OK.
5769
The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department say they arrived at the scene to find the man dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to CBS Los Angeles.
5770
Warne also thanked Benaud for the support he gave to him as a young cricketer.
The Nine Network will air a special on the life of cricketing great Richie Benaud on Saturday night at 7pm.
5771
Later in the day, storms in southwestern Indiana toppled trees and downed power lines.
Flash flooding tore through St Louis county after hours of storms.
5772
The Foundation (£16) was a rather pleasant surprise.
But the brushes (from £1.99) aren’t bad, and don’t moult like many cheap brushes do.
5773
Andre Villas-Boas' team barely registered a shot before first-half stoppage time, the one exception coming in the 18th minute, when captain Danny exchanged passes with Hulk before seeing his near-post shot saved by Beto.
5774
Apply for the #KodeWithKarlie Scholarship @FlatironSchool for your chance to learn code!
Karlie can be seen working with other students at the software engineering class last summer .
5775
Barcelona won it.
sure that as soon as the youth set-up from Barcelona and other Spanish teams draw new, good players, Spain will emerge again.
5776
On Monday, she took her family to Jerusalem's Old City - the reputed location of the historical religious event - to visit Armenian church St James Cathedral in order to baptise their little girl.
5777
I never realised how many people have been through what we have been through because at times I thought I was the only one.'
5778
Benaud's fascinating dissection of Sachin Tendulkar's capabilities compared to Don Bradman show not only what an encyclopedic knowledge of cricket he possessed, but also how his understanding of the game evolved alongside the sport itself.
5779
The prognosis suggests Walker will miss Tottenham's next four Premier League fixtures but could be fit in time to return for the last day of the season against Everton at Goodison Park .
5780
Keukenhof Gardens, The Netherlands .
Head to Savannah, Georgia, and experience the area's signature oak trees draped with Spanish moss .
5781
Mr Jackson, 36, was even seen giving Miss Middleton's famous derrière a pat .
Miss Middleton has much to look forward to, with her newest niece or nephew due within days .
5782
University of Kentucky fans watch the game Saturday night on a projector set up in a backyard .
Authorities say no significant problems occurred during that gathering.
5783
A mother and her teenage daughter have been arrested after a video of them fighting with a student at a high school was posted online.
5784
According to an online itinerary, the package includes a commercial flight ticket from any UK airport to Glasgow, plus a ticket to Pacino’s show in the Scottish city on May 19.
5785
Doing well: Jordan appeared in good health when he was brought to shore.
'He said that he felt our prayers.
Vessel: Jordan is pictured on his 35-foot boat.
5786
The Serie A leaders won the tie on aggregate, having led from the first-leg 1-0 through Arturo Vidal's penalty in Turin.
5787
The other seeds to advance to the third round were both Spaniards - seventh seed Roberto Bautista-Agut with a 6-3 6-4 win over Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil, and ninth seed Tommy Robredo, the 2004 champion who was a 6-3 6-2 victor against Kazakhstan's Mikhail Kukushkin.
5788
Country singer Brad Paisley joked about what Schieffer might do after stepping down from his job with CBS News .
He was enjoying the job too much.
5789
Members of the church are seen here carrying books in the town of Wells, Texas, in September 2013 .
Then, earlier this month, Grove left the church under mysterious circumstances.
5790
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has been notified of the company's decision to voluntarily shut down the plant, Blue Bell said.
5791
Although both Button and team-mate Fernando Alonso retired during the race at the Sepang International Circuit, the duo at least discovered the car was competitive alongside other midfield runners.
5792
House swapping and couch surfing are two other options.
Volunteering with an organic farm offers a chance to travel and learn while helping others .
5793
A woman had to enlist the help of a nurse on the street as she went into labor on the I-65 .
He was due to speak with a tech company affiliated with his latest jobs initiative.
5794
By the time Andy Murray ties the knot next Saturday he will hopefully have forgotten the utter frustration at becoming Novak Djokovic's Easter bunny.
5795
Pellegrini claimed he did not feel under pressure despite speculation mounting that he may be sacked at the end of a disappointing year.
It's not logical to sack the manager.
5796
Sq Ldr Joll later rejoined his squadron at Manston.
Sq Ldr Joll went on to fly a Beaufighter night fighter (file pic) and shot down several Nazi planes .
5797
On the bad days at Spurs, when he is in a particularly confrontational mood, he tells people that he is only prepared to leave Tottenham if they can fix a move to Real Madrid or Chelsea.
5798
However, the most popular wedding destination in the country is the council area of Dumfries and Galloway .
1. Dumfries and Galloway .
9.
10.
5799
He was arrested at the school on Friday afternoon and is facing charges of luring a minor for sexual exploitation, child molestation and sexual conduct with a minor.
5800
Les Gets is well placed in the giant Portes du Soleil area, which has 400 miles of groomed pistes, linked by 14 ski stations across the French/Swiss border.
5801
BFFs:
Harmless: The state is defending a Department of Natural Resources conservation officer who shot Caesar on the belief the pig was wild .
5802
Suffragette:
Miss Atwood isn't the only writer to criticise the Duchess, who is due to give birth to her second child later this month, in public.
5803
The shooting left Margaret McCollom paralyzed below the waist.
He returned to bed with the gun and told investigators he woke next to the sound of a gunshot, Ballard said.
5804
Ms Srivastava's hair has made her a local celebrity and she is a regular jury member at a major beauty contest in her hometown .
5805
Ivorian striker Drogba smiles as he attends his charity ball at London's swanky Dorchester Hotel hours after beating Manchester United .
5806
The properties would be at prices 20 per cent cheaper than their market value and reserved purely for first-time buyers under the age of 40.
5807
The image marks the third racially-charged incident on a college campus in the past week.
The picture marks the third racially-charged incident on a college campus in the past week.
5808
Pardew was warned about his behaviour by the FA and wrote to Pellegrini to apologise for the offensive name he called him.
5809
The Cote d'Azur outfit had Frederic Michalak's unerring boot and Ali Williams' late try to thank for a victory littered with error and inaccuracy.
5810
'Sterling is not going to go to Real Madrid at the moment I wouldn't think, so where could he go better in England?'  said Redknapp while working as a pundit for BT Sport.
5811
A dinner party in West London.
Later, she helped campaign for him in Doncaster during the 2005 election by moving chairs around for a public meeting.
5812
The package was picked up from the sender in Nathan, Queensland, on Monday, April 20 at 12:26pm.
The package finally made it to Sunnybank on Thursday, April 23, at 10:02am.
5813
Just six wins since the turn of the year has seen the club drop out of the FA Cup to Middlesbrough and come up short against Barcelona in Europe for the second season in succession.
5814
He knows how to talk to them.
Sherwood took to Ramsey when he was gaining knowledge of youth football after he accepted a new role at Tottenham in 2012.
5815
But Defoe posted a photo via his Instagram page which showed the striker enjoying the sunshine with a game of basketball.
5816
Kansas welfare recipients who want taxpayers to shell out for their tattoos have until July 1 to experiment with the latest in body art .
In.
5817
The Labour leader insisted SNP MPs would not be able to dictate policy, even if he fails to win a majority and is reliant on them to stay in Number 10.
5818
Spectators are then filmed attempting to play the imaginary drums but one competitor who continues to turn heads is mother-of-two, Malenda Meacham.
5819
That doesn't mean we have had 10 years of Bahrain bores though as Sportsmail takes a look back at our favourite images through the Sakhir archives.
5820
More investors have withdrawn from Josh's project and it is yet to be revealed whether Apple, his final hope, would agree to promote MinoMonsters.
5821
The Tory leader has since apologised, blaming a bout of 'brain fade' - perhaps he became confused since both sides wear claret and blue colours.
5822
Ms Harman went to St Paul's Girls School in the 1960s .
'The reality is that the spending programme that they have put forward is a threat to cut the NHS.
5823
'If we finish the puzzle it will make them go away,' the PM said.
But the children had spotted more errors.
 'This one is not right,' she said.
5824
The CEO of Salesforce.com has announced the company is now attempting to transfer any Indiana employee who is 'uncomfortable' with the polarizing new Religious Freedom Restoration Act out of the state.
5825
A militant takes aim at three religious relics on the side of a historic building in the 2,000-year old city .
Ban Ki-Moon called the Nimrud attack 'a war crime.'
5826
'I believe everything in the book is true.
Kramer, who is HIV positive, said that 35 years is too long for a plague like HIV to still be in existence.
5827
An internal report has revealed that the heavily-militarized guard referred to  protesters as 'enemy forces'
5828
One superyacht owner threw a party with two live tigers, allowing guests to pose for photos with the animals .
The owner just wanted a familiar taste from back home.
5829
He believes the unpredictable conditions of the job means his successor will need to be a fast learner.
When that hit we had a surge of people needing to be rescued.
5830
.
Following the attack earlier this month, Gavin told KOMO: 'He ate me.'
He has five teeth.'
'He is a walking miracle,' she added.
5831
Atletico also won the Spanish Super Cup in August.
The headlines from Spanish publications AS and Marca on Wednesday focused on the huge derby game .
5832
'I went to rave on Friday and there's another video on Facebook and I'm doing flips there.
'I'm not encouraging people do it and if I go to another game, I'm not going to do it again.'
5833
She explained that among the negativity, she also received many messages of 'kindness' and 'support'.
‘Samantha X is afraid of love,’ she revealed.
5834
Joe Garner felt he should’ve been awarded a penalty after being clattered by Frank Fielding.
Grayson will be frustrated at the way in which his side switched off from a routine set piece.
5835
The Brazil playmaker has been nominated for the PFA Player of the Season this term .
, Ausilio said: 'He was just 18 when he arrived at the club from Vasco.
5836
They said: 'The white-cheeked macaque is threatened by illegal hunting and the construction of hydropower stations.
He said: 'This area has been little studied.
5837
Miss Davison told the BBC in response to the Tory right-to-buy plans on Tuesday that it was wrong to effectively give money to ‘some of the most securely housed people in the country on some of the lowest rents’.
5838
He received attention recently for spraying signs that read 'Stop Making Stupid People Famous' around the town and for a touching tribute to Robin Williams following the actor's death .
5839
They now want the Guinness Book of Records to document that achievement.
Friends of Tuti Yusupova, pictured, who died this week claim she was the world's oldest person aged 135 .
5840
It was revealed that Battilana also alleged to Italian police in 2010 that she was 'forced against' her will into having sex for money with a 70-year-old 'businessman of substantial means' when she was underage .
5841
Pele has bemoaned Brazil's performance as hosts at last summer's World Cup and said it was 'a disaster'
'It was not a surprise to me (that the players have bounced back).
5842
Jose Mourinho praised John Terry's performance against Arsenal - hailing it as the Chelsea captain's best under him.
‘It was the best JT has ever played.
5843
A sign in front of a watchtower at Auschwitz I concentration camp, which has become an unlikely tourist .
 A group of children who survived the camp, pictured .
5844
A source told AAP that police believe Ms Scott was dead before she reached the bushland.
Loved ones released yellow balloons into the air at the picnic to commemorate the life of Ms Scott .
5845
Ann Rule's son, 54-year-old Andrew Rule, is accused of bullying her into giving him $23,327, according to court documents, and admitted to authorities that he blew the money given to him on gambling and strip clubs.
5846
She went on sick leave as a result.
Jane Setchfield, an NASUWT executive member for Wales, said some schools are operating a sliding scale discipline policy.
5847
The team allegedly waited in front of an aircraft at the ‘apron area’ of the airport for about six hours before they could fly to Kathmandu.
5848
Despite the police investigation, Mr Heslop is 'the happiest he has ever been' according to sources close to him because he is 'going to be a father'
5849
Chris Smalling was substituted on Tuesday night with illness but did not have to be escorted from the plane .
'Ross is a terrific player,' Rooney said afterwards.
5850
Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders was forced into a humiliating climbdown after a jury threw out yet another Old Bailey case.
5851
Indeed, another video shows the duo visiting a Starbucks for a 'pup-uccino'.
Again, Cooper takes the whole cup away in his mouth to demolish the contents.
5852
'The biggest thing is David De Gea, and keeping him at the football club,' Neville told the Manchester Evening News.
'He’s winning football games on his own.
5853
Played by Dame Maggie Smith in the ITV drama, Violet, Countess of Grantham may be coming back in the new American show The Gilded Age, from Downton creator Julian Fellowes.
5854
I’ve been out injured for a whole year now, but I’m finally on the verge of a return to regular training.
All in all, this injury could have made or broken me.
5855
Her release came in part thanks to a letter written to the court by Peter Innes.
Last week, Innes relented and chose to give his daughter what she wanted--her mother back .
5856
Harden scored 42 points in a dominating role after deferring to Howard and role players in the first two wins.
Game 4 is Sunday at Dallas.
5857
'I feel as though I have got a good connection with the club now and there was no doubt where my future was going to be and it was just a matter of time for my agent and the club to sort it out.
5858
Fassbender will star opposite Marion Cotillard star in a film version of Shakespeare's 'Macbeth' by Australian director Justin Kurzel.
5859
The chunkier the shoe, the more likely it is that it will add weight to your leg so we recommend investing in a nude shoe that has enough attitude to reflect your personality but is also elegant enough to be a classic.'
5860
Ironically Mandzukic was booked for a foul on Varane when it looked like he had been elbowed again, shortly after he needed treatment to stem the blood flow from above his eye after a clash with Ramos.
5861
Her decision proved fatal for the baby when one of the brawling adults grabbed the calf between its jaws.
'Sadly, as she closed her eye one of the sub-adult hippos grabbed the young calf.
5862
Wrongful death?:
Court case:
Proof: Sources told TMZ that one of the step-children had been asked to find pictures of the pair together .
5863
4
41.50:
Rob Dean, of the Kennet and Avon Canal Trust, said: 'I think this is the right approach.
1hr, 45m: Gridlock...
It's all water over the bridge (at last)
5864
Two senior advisers said on Saturday that Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign will center on boosting economic security for the middle class and expanding opportunities for working families .
5865
India has influenced the outcome of the match using its position (in the ICC),' Kamal, a Bangladeshi, said at the airport on his return from the tournament in Australia.
5866
Labor organizers with a campaign to raise fast food industry wages to $15 an hour say they are fighting to unionize low-wage workers across various sectors .
5867
Chelsea's Jose Mourinho gestures on the sideline after going into the game against Arsenal without a striker .
Here at the Emirates, it has finally taken shape.
5868
She then reportedly wrote; 'OH AND YEAH YOUR FAKE DATE WITH NATIONAL ENQUIOR WHEN YOU TOLD HIM ABOUT ME BILLY AND SUGAR BEAR IT'S OKAY BC THAT IS MY PAST.'
5869
'Normally I look at him and he belongs to that breed of... comedians who think the louder you tell a joke the funnier it gets.
I wasn't offended.'
5870
Weinstein, who is originally from Queens, founded Miramax with his brother Bob in 1979 and is worth an estimated $200million.
5871
After days of silence, the official line on Pietersen’s dismissal is that the ECB wanted to ‘create a culture’ in which captain Alastair Cook had ‘the full support of all players’.
MAY 2014 .
5872
A good number of his reviews have been written for attractions in Hong Kong, Macau and London, where Brad and Jill lived for a few years before moving to Asia.
5873
Chelsea's on loan midfielder Oriol Romeu goes up against Sportsmail's Martin Keown as the pair predict the scores for the weekend's Premier League and FA Cup matches.
5874
But last night it emerged that she has previously been charged with conspiracy to evade millions of dollars in tax before the charges were dismissed by a judge.
5875
Brownlee's victory capped a good week for Great Britain after Vicky Holland triumphed in the women's race on Saturday.
5876
While we don't yet know what those proteins are being used for, learning about the process can tell us something about the environment in which these organisms thrive.'
5877
Nine News reports the man suffered 'injuries to both legs and was in a stable condition' but according to ABC, the man sustained a broken leg and internal injuries.
5878
'Housekeepers are usually responsible for cleaning the glasses, yet are not provided with dish soap,' he explains.
What happens if someone dies in a hotel room?
5879
Reading vs Arsenal (5.20pm) SUNDAY .
Manchester City vs West Ham United (1.30pm) Newcastle United vs Tottenham Hotspur (4pm) FA CUP SEMI-FINAL .
5880
The People's Daily reported that the local Public Security Bureau has started an investigation into the incident.
5881
Police ran to where he fell in the courtyard and Kuta was then taken to St. Barnabas Hospital where he was listed in critical condition.
5882
The Juventus side which faced Monaco in the Champions League had an average age of 30 years and 64 days .
Average age: 31y 331d .
5883
The theft has been reported to the police and the pairs owners are offering a £1,000 reward for information leading to their safe return .
5884
Mr Clarke said that in 2010 he viewed Mr Deacon as a friend and after this point they fell out over work.’
The court heard how ‘Mr Clarke provided screenshots of the posts to the police’.
5885
As in the show, the stately living room features a grand piano .
The house is as opulent in real life as it is in the show and has a lot of room for entertaining .
5886
It lists getting to live in the Tampa mansion as one of its perks, boasting a 'safe and secure residence'.
'We are conforming with all the zoning requirements.'
5887
He said that the bright light in the sky - which was 'brighter than the sun, shining round me' - matches videos of the Chelyabinsk meteor, which was estimated to be three times as bright as the sun.
5888
testimony.
The FBI search of Gentile's home turned up a list of the stolen art pieces and their estimated value, as well as policeuniforms .
5889
But Mayweather Snr stated on Wednesday that he would not be responding Roach's criticism and would be leaving his son to do the talking in the ring.
5890
The researchers, whose findings are published in the New England Journal of Medicine, said one jab protects against a disease which has killed more than 10,460 people in a year across six countries including Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, the US and Mali.
He said: 'An Ebola glycoprotein from the Ebola strain in Zaire is being inserted into the VSV live vaccine.
5891
It’s not a new concept.’
‘Also, these kinds of products are not regulated or monitored, so you can never be 100 per cent sure what is actually in them.’
5892
A flaw in robots designed to perform surgery has been found that lets them be easily hacked, according to researchers.
5893
Fabregas' countryman Diego Costa is expected to miss at least two weeks of action with hamstring trouble .
5894
Aged 10, he and his brother were taken into care.
Jailed: Glitter in 2006 while on trial for abusing two young girls in Vietnam, for which he was jailed .
5895
At a safe distance: The group cheer in excitment as Steven captures two orcas swimming and jumping from the water .
This is really dangerous, I’m scared.’
5896
In one photo, a startled brown horse attempts to flee as the man is kicked backwards into the water.
5897
The estate took the decision to rebuild the 88 steps themselves after becoming 'utterly fed-up with the bureaucracy', Mr Weld said.
5898
That was unheard of.
He is said to have 'loved making money, not spending it', and friend told MailOnline he would make £250,000 a day trading.
5899
Chad Hurst (right in hat) spoke to a young man about his foul language during their flight when they landed in Salt Lake City on Sunday .
5900
So we introduced 15 hours of free childcare a week for three- and four-year-olds and disadvantaged two-year-olds.
I believe passionately in reducing poverty.
5901
Batschelet warns that current trends mean as many as half of young Americans will be so grossly overweight by the end of the decade that the military will be unable to recruit enough qualified soldiers.
5902
He was also building on his Good Friday denunciation of what he then called 'complicit silence' about the targeting of Christians.
5903
Their case was escalated to a matter of 'national security'.
The men were held after being seen by police writing down aircraft registration numbers at Fujairah Airport .
5904
David Cameron will today risk infuriating the SNP by vowing to conduct an annual review of the fairness of the Scottish government’s policies on the rest of the UK.
5905
The physical scars will heal a lot quicker than the mental ones.'
Police are investigating the crime by pouring over CCTV footage, and are confident they will catch The attackers.
5906
He has since been discharged.
According to his LinkedIn Terry was the operations manager at the Richard Petty Driving Experience at Walt Disney World .
5907
Michele explained that Marie is 'living proof that "social work works"', adding that her little girl is nearly nine-years-old and she is a straight A student who is 'wise beyond her years'.
5908
In-form Arsenal striker Giroud and Newcastle hitman Cisse have had their seasons interrupted by injury and suspension, while Murray was out on loan at Reading until January.
5909
A youngster admiring his catch was left surprised when the fish jumped up and slapped him in the face.
5910
Leonhart was widely criticized for her response to the report and a group of lawmakers said in a statement that she was 'woefully unable to change' the agency's culture.
5911
Former England star Andrew Flintoff thiks time is running out for Pietersen to resurrect his England career .
'He's a popular lad, and a great player.
5912
In a move that will upset traditionalists, the FA are understood to have secured a three-year contract with Emirates Airlines.
5913
'Aldo has been the champion for a long time.
Chicago-born Lamas claims he is under no illusions that he will be in for an easy night with Mendes.
5914
However, Giordano says police continued to try to block him from photographing the protest after the incident .
However, he says that they will not keep him out of work .
5915
The problem is this was a rusty piece of metal.'
Dr Timothy Haffey removed the wire in a 20-minute sinus surgery (left the wire being removed from Parker's nose).
5916
Jarvis entered the family's orbit in 2005 when she joined Obama's Senate office.
Jarvis said that Michelle was an active part of her transition out of Washington.
5917
We went on an excellent guided tour taking in the Chinese Theatre, Walk of Fame, Rodeo Drive, Sunset Strip and other spots of note.
5918
The flood started with her bath, which started filling up with 'brown lumps'
Mrs Aresti's bedroom carpet was soaked in sewage and had to be replaced afterwards .
5919
'I don't know exactly what's going to happen,' she said of UFC, even though a predicted early attack in her last fight out led to her ending Cat Zingano's night after a record 14 seconds.
5920
In return for which they regard SPFL football with indifference.
'It's fair to say that the landscape we are in right now is challenging,' added Regan.
5921
It means that, if all ice were to be spread across the surface of Mars, the entire planet would be covered in more than 3.3ft (one metre).
5922
After a low-key day campaigning in his constituency in Doncaster on Saturday, the Labour leader spent all of Sunday and Monday with his family .
5923
Original examples of cels from Yellow Submarine are so sought after that experts have tipped the submarine cartoon to fetch £10,000 when it goes under the hammer on Thursday.
5924
Sam Allardyce gives fourth official Robert Madley a piece of his mind during West Ham's defeat .
‘Mangala comes out and tries to clean out Stewart Downing.
5925
If anyone deserves life in prison, it's David Pate.'
Horrifying: After he was arrested Pate even blamed the victim for the murder, saying: 'It was his fault.
5926
Roman Abramovich has bought Tel Aviv’s Varsano Hotel for 100million Israeli shekels (£17.1m).
Abramovich and his wife Dasha Zhukova, who are both Jewish, are frequent visitors to Israel.
5927
The baby's weight puts all the critics to rest.'
Sarah posted this precious picture of James to her Instagram on Friday commenting that it was 'love at first sight'
5928
The mug weighs a little over one pound (454g) and can be charged wirelessly or using a traditional USB cord.
order the mug for $30 (£20).
5929
It is based on a novel by British writer Tom Rob Smith and was due to premiere in Russia today.
5930
She left around £325,000 to the fund to help poorer pupils attend the school .
He said: 'First and foremost she was a teacher - and her passion for Watson's was second to none.
5931
"Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam,"' she told Seattle television station KOMO.
On Thursday evening, Malaja's heartbroken family said the toddler was brain dead.
5932
John Guidetti will be defending this charge.’
John Guidetti faces disciplinary action after singing an offensive song about rivals Rangers .
5933
Her anticipated departure stems from concerns that agents of the federal drug agency divulged secrets at sex parties with prostitutes that drug lords in Colombia may have staged to elicit sensitive information.
5934
He recommends a group of no fewer than five attempt tucking into such a massive omelette.
The beastly dish was made to order using 150 fresh eggs - and contains 12,000 calories .
5935
'New South Wales police will continually arrest people who supply and use illicit drugs at dance parties.
5936
The café manager said the shop has begun operating eight air purifiers 24 hours a day.
Fantasy Café is one of the first establishments in China to start charging an 'air-purifying fee'
5937
Terry (right) flicks home from close range after a scramble in the Leicester box following a Chelsea corner .
GOALS: Drogba 48, Terry 79, Ramires 83 .
5938
Mr Kallai and a friend mimic the planes that fly past at the beginning of the traveller's adventure .
Mr Kallai said: ‘I brought my dad with me for part of the trek.
5939
Gareth Bale is a huge doubt for Real Madrid's Champions League quarter-final second leg on Wednesday .
5940
QPR boss Chris Ramsey believes Sunday's west London derby is more crucial to his side than it is to title-chasing Chelsea.
'It's a big game for us,' he said.
5941
Additional growth may come from the wild videos its cameras create, which the company hopes to use to create a media company.
5942
The NHS does not routinely remove the type of tumour Colby had, instead treating the condition with medication.
We just wanted Colby to have the best.'
5943
Vero Moda Vmfame trench coat at Nelly.com .
He had as much emotion as the customer-service representative who tells you your bags missed the flight,' she penned.
5944
And even though I'm probably not going to be around to see it, it's going to help a lot of people.'
Hill played in four games and made five layups before the spreading tumor made her stop.
5945
And the holes have been designed in such a way so that the flow collects additional air at is leaves the device to boost its trajectory and output.
5946
'Jesus mercy of killers,' she adds at another point.
To date the clip of their traumatic theme park outing has been watched more than 17 million times on Facebook .
5947
The problem however, is that the featured quote came from another author.
A quote attributed to Maya Angelou on her commemorative stamp released by the US Postal Service is actually that of another writer .
5948
Aston Villa midfielder Tom Cleverly stretches his legs during his side's training session on Thursday .
If you take your foot off the pedal, this game shocks you.
5949
The Ligue 1 Champions will also have to cope without the injured David Luiz against the La Liga giants .
The second leg will be played at the Camp Nou on April 21.
5950
The Tories meanwhile remain stuck on 33 per cent, according to the pollsters Ipsos MORI.
This is backed up by the latest projections of the election result.
5951
It will help astrophysicists understand how matter is distributed in the universe and provide key insights into dark matter – one of physics' greatest mysteries.
5952
As the judge addressed the jury before deliberations Tuesday, the newspaper reported that Monica stood up, raised her hand and began asking for the chance to give jurors one more demonstration on how she claimed she shot Delicino.
5953
At least one student, who was Muslim, showed the document to her parents who contacted the Council of American Islamic Relations (CAIR).
5954
In earlier court documents, Santana confessed to the strangling, stabbing and sexual intercourse.
She then added: 'He said he was going to gut her.'
5955
Brandt was discovered hanged inside the garage of his Coconut Grove home by his friend, John Joseph Hupert, at around 9.15am on Easter Sunday morning.
5956
But he warned that without careful monitoring, the country risks ‘sleepwalking’ into a new health crisis in the 21st century.
5957
Officials learned of the allegations against the middle school teacher on January 30.
She was removed from her job and no longer works for the school district.
5958
Russell Brand.
Fashion blogger Simon Glazin isn't convinced by the current trend.
Men are in danger of going for a debonair look but can end up revealing way too much, he adds.
5959
'I was more worried about winning the race.
The 27-year-ol Shinn was forced to ride more than 200 metres to the finish line with his pants down .
5960
The England batsman waves his bat in disgust after Anderson's lack of concentration at the crease .
5961
Kaka showed off an 'I belong to Jesus' vest after AC Milan's Champions League win against Liverpool in 2007 .
Just part of players' rituals.
5962
The study comes just a day after it was revealed a Ukip election candidate will be grilled by the police over claims he tried to 'corruptly influence' voters by giving them sausage rolls.
5963
When officers arrived they found a 19-year-old with stab wounds in a barber shop being tended to by customers.
Their assistance has been invaluable to our investigation.
5964
And this week he faced accusations from the model Kate Upton that he had released footage of her dancing in a bikini without her permission.
5965
Forensic pathologist Philip Lumb told the inquest he found burn marks consistent with electrocution on Nathan's arm.
He was the light of my life and my family and I will miss him so much.
5966
FireChat (pictured) has been downloaded more than five million times and is particularly useful when on a plane, or the underground .
5967
Transfers like Radamel Falcao were always shrouded in mystery.
His transformation is still a symbol, only now it is one of just how much the club and team have progressed.
5968
The manager of the deli in Brooklyn said Detective Ian Cyrus, who has been suspended without pay, was caught on camera stealing cash.
His supervisor has been placed on desk duty.
5969
Veteran midfielder Andrea Pirlo has returned to training after a calf injury .
'I think they (Monaco) have richly deserved to get to the quarter finals,' added Allegri.
5970
Flat on his back, the tortoise lost his balance when the female moved away -  and he had to scrabble in the mud .
5971
And insurance will no longer cover it.
'Insurance doesn't pay for the amount of therapy they need so often times that person doesn't reach their full potential.'
5972
Both planes were sold after the singer’s death in August 1977 and bought a few years later by OKC.
During the refurbishment, the Lisa Marie was in a hangar in Fort Worth.
5973
The Dutchman knows, however, he will not be judged on his ability to repair the damage done by David Moyes.
If Clyne is the right fit, Luke Shaw needs to stay fit.
5974
'My girls know that who they are is just perfect,' she wrote on her blog last year.
In fact, she believes that parents should celebrate whatever their kids are into.
5975
He would tap on my window to let me know he was there.
'Our friendship progressed to such a degree that he would perch on my shoulder as I showered.’
5976
Now Ward’s announcement has made it yet more likely that Froch might retire.
Amir Khan's proposed fight with Chris Algieri is yet to be confirmed .
5977
Lance Corporal Riki Hughes has been jailed for 16 months after he plundered the accounts of Tidworth Town Football Club, where he volunteered as club secretary.
5978
With just under five weeks to go till his meeting with Mayweather, Pacquiao took to his Instagram account to share a video of his morning run with the 32-year-old being joined by his training entourage.
5979
Reports this week have suggested that McClaren could leave Derby should, like last season, he fail to get them promoted from the Championship via the play-offs.
5980
A comprehensive review of Chloe's case had made clear that a 'circuit-breaker' was needed to save the girl from the chaos in her life .
5981
The critique comes as one of the four gunmen responsible for the brutal mass-murders has been identified as a lawyer son of a Kenyan government official.
5982
Other dilemmas tested included a scenario where a group of people were hiding from soldiers trying to kill them, but were about to be given away by a baby crying.
5983
They deny the charges against them, saying the babies were 'a gift'.
'The case, which is expected to last two days at Marseille Correctional Court, continues.
5984
'The regulatory regime concerning the products sold during this criminal enterprise exists for the whole purpose of protecting the public.'
5985
The animal charity has no more legal actions left under the Hunting Act after its decision last month to drop the case against William Bryer, joint master of the renowned Cattistock Hunt (pictured) in Dorset .
5986
The prank was captured by video but following complaints, the tourism organisers in Ecuador took the video down .
5987
More than 10,000 fans saw the Finland game and the IFA said the stadium was assessed as safe before the match kicked off.
5988
Although Liverpool ace Mathews is disappointed that he won't be facing the champion Abril for the belt, the main consolation for him is that he will still challenge for a version of the world title.
5989
Lionsgate has partnered with Dubai Parks and Resorts to bring a Lionsgate zone to motiongate™ Dubai, the Hollywood-themed park opening in Dubai in October 2016 .
5990
The research is the latest installment from the Children of the 90s study.
It involved 5,000 British 15-year-olds who were questioned on a variety of topics in the mid-2000s.
5991
'Jeb Bush is probably in the race.
She touched on the media's biggest scandal over the past year with a quick quip at her own network.
5992
Students graduating from ISIS' nursing school will be required to spend a full two years working for institutions run by the terrorist organisation after graduating .
5993
And they were like, "Ummm, life is a little different now."
Kim's acting career began when she was six-years-young, having starred in a long list of Disney TV films .
5994
And even though I'm probably not going to be around to see it, it's going to help a lot of people.'
 She scored the first and last baskets .
5995
The Ukip leader said 'millions' of refugees could arrive on boats in Europe over the next few years unless they are intercepted and turned back now.
5996
Alex Neil (Norwich City) 33 .
'It's a massive opportunity and people who saw me as a player will know I don't really believe in risks,' he said.
5997
Lehnardt was arrested after sharing details of the incident with her Alcoholics Anonymous sponsor, who then went to authorities.
, her lawyer said.
5998
Referee: Calum Murray .
It was a free-kick.
Stuart Armstrong (right) is challenged and sent hurtling to the ground by Dundee's Ferry at Den's Park .
5999
In the latest case, the accused salesman claimed he received the offending image over Whatsapp while he was at home .
6000
A mountain of rotting fish:
A team of people have been working to clear the dead fish from the water by piling them up on the nearby shore .
6001
The two enjoyed a sumptuous five-course Italian lunch at the restaurant, before getting into a waiting SUV .
The scene kept the bodyguards busy.
6002
Christopher May, 50, will appear at Pontypridd Magistrates' Court tomorrow charged in connection with the murder of Tracey Woodford, 47.
6003
This causes the eastern Pacific to get warmer.
This cycle occurs at intervals of between two to seven years and can last for nine months to two years.
6004
Sekope Kepu (Bordeaux)** .
James Horwill (Harlequins)** .
George Smith is currently a flanker for Lyon and would be eligible to play for Australia again .
6005
With its blend of Portuguese and Chinese culture, it didn’t take us long to discover the unique appeal of Macau.
Incredible skyline!
6006
Rodgers was peppered with questions about Sterling in the post-match press conference, during which he said 'a big part of this is actually nothing to do with him'.
6007
They found the temperature reaches up to 3,000°C in the atmosphere (shown in diagram).
Depending on how weak or strong the signal is, it is possible to work out how hot the planet is.
6008
On the day of the shooting, Price apparently posted on his Facebook page: 'I'm sorry everyone, its been real, good bye and i love you all' and 'I dei [sic] today.'
6009
US veteran Jim Furyk celebrates after completing victory at the RBC Heritage .
Luke Donald was the highest placed Englishman after tied 15th on nine-under par .
6010
As for Djokovic, he has lost just two matches in 2015 and yesterday’s triumph in a high-class match was his 16th straight win.
6011
Before Disney was opened Walt received a wealth of advice, most of which he ignored.
6.
Disneyland is the most geotagged location in the world, which is perhaps no surprise .
6012
that's why we don't mind #2016 #zaughty #zindabad,' he added.
However, despite having collaborated with big artists, it's his work with Zayn that may well turn out to be the most controversial.
6013
She also said that she has a friend in the United Kingdom and she thought it would brighten up his day if he saw the image online.
6014
One of the cats at the mobile home in Arizona was found nursing a set of three young Chihuahua puppies in a box .
6015
Mr Mitchell, who founded An Noor Mosque in Acton where Mr Arwani was a preacher until 2011, was arrested on Wednesday night on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.
6016
Above, Yoes' home in Grand Prairie .
Above, another view of Yoes' lawn from Bing.
He says he's upset with the system the city uses to send out citations.
6017
The German won 12 of the next 16 to tie the match.
Keys moved in front once more at 5-4 before Kerber took control for good.
6018
Tom Ince chose not celebrate, nor did 60 or so travelling Blackpool fans who used to cherish his displays.
Subs not used: Christie, Forsyth,  Roos,  Albentosa.
6019
Annegret Raunigk, a primary school teacher from Berlin, will create medical history when she becomes the oldest mother of four in a single birth in the world .
6020
A kidnapping in South Carolina was thwarted because the would-be abductor couldn't operate a manual stick shift in the victim's car, police said.
6021
Following that cold-hearted decision, the mournful child explained how, 'nobody plays with me, I play alone'.
China has a population of 1.36billion.
6022
BIG CATS .
See: chimpanzees, mountain gorillas, lowland gorillas, lemurs, Bornean orangutans and Sumatran orangutans .
TOTAL: .
Destinations 21 .
6023
Salcombe made headlines last spring when it was named Britain's most expensive seaside resort.
6024
Miss Willard's family are unsure how the teenager became ill so suddenly, just four days after she returned her feeling unwell.
6025
Faculty at Columbia University have said some of Dr Mehmet Oz's tactics have 'sullied their reputation' - but also applauded him for the work he had carried out at the Ivy League school .
6026
‘It’s the life I want for myself,’ he said.
The drain of leading English players to television rather than management was the key finding of a Sportsmail study.
6027
'I can't understand what the problem is with the referees doing it as well.
'It's not important for me to speak with the referee.
It's the Press.
6028
'We know you want to allow government officials like yourself to make this decision for women — but do you stand by your opposition to any exceptions, even when it comes to rape, incest, or life of the mother?
6029
Lillie, five, is not microchipped and is still missing.
It is thought Alfie was dumped by the thieves when they realised he is neutered.
6030
He also made 98 Ulster appearances.
'My symptoms continue to improve, and I know the advice that I received is in the best interests of my long-term health.'
6031
Ceara Lynch, 28, says her career began when she realized how much money she could make from selling her used underwear online; her first pair sold for $70 .
6032
Mistakenly thinking she was one of the wardens, he gave her about £30 in cash.
Walters was identified on the CCTV footage by a beat police officer and she was arrested on March 4.
6033
A Marmite chocolate egg made with the love-it-or-hate it spread accompanied with Marmite Cashew nuts makes for a fun Yeaster treat.
He's a good egg!
6034
Authorities said not all of the missing people were participating in the 57th annual regatta on Dauphin Island (above) AL.com reported that Richard Mather, 52, of Mobile, was aboard a 39-foot O'Day sailboat along with seven people, when he saw two boats collide.
6035
The judge said the boy's parents, who are Latvian, had accepted that their son had suffered from 'poor dental hygiene' due to a diet high in sugar, which had caused tooth decay (file picture)
6036
The eighth side in the division are Wolves, who have the most potent striker in 28-goal Benik Afobe, signed from Arsenal for £2million in January.
6037
Missed:
Incident:
Arlington Park attendee Jayme Corry said in an interview with WWLP 'We see small [alligators], maybe two or three foot.'
6038
'Flames were coming out of every window.
The building manager who lived and worked in the Sandpiper complex was distraught watching the fire .
6039
Also writing in the BMJ, he said they had ‘great potential’ to reduce death risk by ‘encouraging healthy behaviour’.
6040
In the same Swalec Stadium arena where Pietersen hopes to be batting against Australia in the first Ashes Test this summer, the Surrey batsman fell for 19 after appearing to be ready to build on the 170 he made against the Oxford students last week.
6041
A University of Nebraska researcher has revealed why stress is bad for you in a video (still image shown).
This is useful in helping you recover from very tense situations.
6042
David Norris's wife begged him to think of their children as he launched his vicious attack - but he only stopped stabbing her when she 'played dead' and a member of the public intervened.
6043
Details of the doctors' brutal murders in the northern Iraqi desert were reported by the country's Al-Sumaria satellite television network.
6044
Just like Clarkson, 'my jeans are too tight and my hairstyle is an exercise in holding back the years,' says Sarah Vine, but that's not the reason she believes she'd be perfect for the vacant role on Top Gear .
6045
Attendance: 26,993 .
Middlesbrough continued to dominate but with Norwich’s first chance of the game on 20 minutes they really should have been level.
6046
Three teenage girls were rescued after their car careened over a 100-foot cliff in Arizona and landed upside down on top of the 16-year-old driver who was thrown from the vehicle.
6047
This as Rapiejko is under fire for using possible excessive force when he mowed down an armed suspect (above) in his police vehicle .
6048
Davies (bottom) injured his left hand during Preston's FA Cup fifth round replay defeat to Manchester United .
6049
Ulster have announced the signing of New Zealand international Charles Piutau.
New Zealand international Charles Piutau will join Ulster on a two-year deal from 2016 .
6050
This image shows bacteria found on a ten pound note .
 This is the bacteria found on a five pound note, including one large bloom .
6051
Ferguson enjoyed a trophy-laden 26-and-a-half years in the Old Trafford hotseat where he won 38 trophies - including 13 Premier League titles and two Champions League successes.
6052
It was a difficult day for England captain Rooney, who was replaced late on after appearing to be injured, against his former club .
6053
The referee in Sunday's Mexican league game ended the game seconds after the bite and did not take action against Arango.
Monterrey are in 10th on 16 points.
6054
The Bouvier's red colobus monkey lives in stretches of jungle alongside rivers in the Congo (pictured above)
6055
On Saturday, Putin (pictured above with U.S. president Obama in November 2014 at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit) said the U.S. and Russia have a common agenda of general efforts directed at making the world economy more democratic, measured and balanced .
6056
Alcorn resigned March 2.
'The letters, written by Alcorn, instructed the 11-year-old female to contact her.'
6057
Below is a summary of the Italian virgin olive oil market worldwide, according to Unaprol (organisation of Italian oil producers), showing the main importing countries:
6058
Carey has long been a fan of Mayweather having attended his fight against Shane Mosley in 2010.
Pacquiao poses with Jimmy Kimmel on his latest visit to the talk show .
6059
Back behind bars: Following the sentencing phase, Hernandez was handcuffed and returned to jail.
He has since been transferred to a maximum-security facility .
6060
Australian umpire Steve Davis had to step in to calm down Stokes and Samuels after the Englishman’s sledging ended with him hurling the ball in frustration to try to run his opponent out and conceding overthrows.
6061
British special forces should be sent into Libya to lead Europe-wide action to tackle human traffickers, Boris Johnson has suggested.
6062
Even residents in the Argentinian city of San Carlos de Bariloche (pictured) donned gas masks to avoid the respiratory damage caused by the ash from Calbuco .
6063
Pope Francis made similar statements during Easter Sunday Mass at St Peter's Square in the Vatican, where he also made a nod to the recent agreement between Iran and the international community over its nuclear power, calling it a 'step toward a more secure and fraternal world.'
6064
Twitter users react to onscreen blunder where Channel 7 allowed the name Hugh G. Rection to feature on the screen during the broadcasting of The Royal Children’s Hospital’s Good Friday Appeal .
6065
Brisbane's Anglican Archbishop has joined a local Catholic priest in calling for Queensland's controversial 'gay panic' homicide defence to be scrapped.
6066
'I think the size of my feet is false advertising.
'But he hasn't done his tests so we need him to go and do it so we can see if the problem really is just me.'
6067
Australia World Cup-winner Aaron Finch must recover from a hamstring injury if he is to arrive on schedule to play for Yorkshire again this summer.
6068
A new survey of students reveals a dramatic fall in support for the Green party, down to 15 per cent from 28 per cent in February .
6069
Anderson may have won it with his extraordinary display but the key to me in England going one-up was the captaincy and batting of Alastair Cook.
6070
Mr Le Pen was first convicted by a Munich court in 1999 for 'minimising the Holocaust' after telling a German far-right meeting that Nazi concentration camps and the gas chambers are 'what one calls a detail'.
6071
Neil Redfearn is considering his position as manager of Leeds United after the club suspended his assistant Steve Thompson on Thursday.
6072
Obese:
'My relationship with food is unhealthy,' she explains.
'We were told that if she doesn't lose weight, she will die before she's 30.'
6073
American Hayley Carney hopes to fulfil a 'lifelong dream' of becoming a British citizen .
'I have found throughout life that British people are kind and polite.
6074
Heather Mack has been keeping her baby with her in a crowded cell in Bali's Kerobokan prison .
Mr Yasona had said earlier that ‘we are ready to carry out the executions’.
6075
Recent photos in the past months show a potty in the aisle, people sleeping in inappropriate places, passengers resting their feet on tray tables and walls and dirty nappies stuffed in the seat pockets.
6076
Taya Kyle told ABC's Robin Roberts she gathered her son, Colton and daughter, McKenna and prepared to tell them.
Eddie Ray Routh shot Chris Kyle dead in February of 2013.
6077
Thompson is said to be facing no more than two years in custody after he agreed to hand over $435,380 in cash that was found with the couple, the newspaper reported.
6078
Caught on camera: Surveillance footage shows 40-year-old Todd Phillips being struck at full speed as he flags down one of his drivers during Sunday's inaugural Indy Grand Prix of Louisiana .
6079
Cazenove was then captured by the Nazis and taken to the Stalag Luft III prisoner of war camp .
The other Mk1 - N3200 - will be gifted to The Imperial War Museum Duxford.
6080
Other options for a new home for the nuclear deterrent include Falmouth, but the potential political fall-out of moving the submarines to the Cornish coast make Gibraltar a more attractive proposal.
6081
Mark Selby was straight into an auspicious groove as he began his title defence at the Betfred World Championship on Saturday.
6082
Nigel Short, 49, said women were not suited to playing chess because it required logical thinking.
His comments mirror those of his rival Garry Kasparov, who infamously said: ‘
6083
He returned to be selected for England's World Cup squad but injured a knee in a warm-up game and did not feature in the finals.
6084
The goalkeeper is left sprawled on the floor as the ball hits the back of the net .
Back in 2009, Adam scored a similar effort for Blackpool reserves against Accrington Stanley.
6085
The researchers said this was due to the contrast between the low arousal of 'silence' and the high arousal of 'chill', which led to the overall arousal of the whole sentence to be moderate.
6086
The car manufacturer teamed up with a Sweden-based start-up to make a temporary light reflective spray for cyclists, called Life Paint.
6087
Adrenaline junkies will also be able to enjoy the dodgems as part of the amazing variety of entertainment on board the new cruise liner .
6088
She was also referred for an internal examination, which revealed abnormalities.
She is also keen for women to be more aware of the symptoms of ovarian cancer.
6089
This is the moment that a shopkeeper bravely tackled a knife-wielding raider who stormed into his store .
'I would like to ask people to have a good look at the footage.
6090
The answer was there was a remote device plugged in.'
Mr Robinson said Ore was told to throw the device in a bin in Morrisons after the fraud had been carried out.
6091
McCall plans to watch the incident again before deciding what action, if any, to take against his captain, who now misses Thursday night’s match at Queen of the South.
6092
Investigators found additional images taken inside the woman's home of air vents and shelves in the bathroom, which they believe suggested he intended to plant hidden cameras at some point.
6093
Madrid-based paper Marca say that one of Spain's hottest goalkeeping prospect's Sergio Rico has been given the task of stopping Barca's formidable trio of Luis Suarez, Neymar and Messi.
6094
About 3,000 French troops are now operating out of Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger and Chad to stem the tide of extremism .
6095
Only last month the Mail revealed how retired priest Neil Richardson was greeted with waves and ‘hello John’ greetings when he moved to Braintree, Essex, 18 months ago because residents mistook him for 74-year-old lookalike John Jemison.
6096
'Casinos are required to post rules and follow those rules.
Casino officials investigated the machine after she informed an attendant that she had won the jackpot.
6097
But she said he was 'not caring in one way or another whether she was consenting'.
The disturbing image was soon removed by the club's management after a backlash on Twitter .
6098
The family launched a claim three years ago.
Gallery chiefs are expected to argue that the permit proves the work was still in Hungary after the war.
6099
Hamilton suffered a lock-up in the second sector of the Bahrain International Circuit, leaving him in second .
6100
Deputies were told on the police radio that the victim had been stabbed in the neck, reports the San Francisco Gate.
6101
The English golfer has used the alternative medicine technique to aid his recovery in the past .
'I gave myself so many chances, and I could have even gone lower over these last 36.
Robin van Persie is one of several players who have used horse placenta massages to aid recovery .
It cannot hurt and, if it helps,' he said ahead of the treatment.
6102
It's amazing and interesting that considering my age, I used to be the youngest in the gym all the time, and now it seems my sparring partners are much younger than me.
6103
Total: £2,375 .
Out and about in Santa Monica in a floral dress by Giambattista Valli (£2,200) and leather jacket by Isabel Marant (£695).
6104
Laura Robson put her injury frustrations to one side over the weekend by heading to Tortuga, a country music festival in Florida.
6105
Welsh are set to return to the Championship next season after finishing bottom of the Aviva Premiership.
6106
She recycled a bright pink coat by British brand Mulberry (whose newest model is none other than Cressida Bonas!).
She also browsed some white baskets that could have been for the new nursery.
6107
Lord Macdonald QC, Director of Public Prosecutions from 2003 to 2008, said the decision not to prosecute Janner in 2007 was made by local CPS lawyers, and new evidence was not passed to him .
6108
Danny Willett is aiming to become the first debutant to win The Masters since Fuzzy Zoeller in 1979 .
'If you finish one place in front of Rory in most events you're going to do all right.
6109
A second fine of £500 was also imposed after Rangers admitted a breach of Disciplinary Rule 19 - which relates to dual ownership.
6110
The SNP has proposed 'a modest increase in public spending' to end austerity and allow Scotland's health budget to rise by £2 billion by 2020.
6111
The news comes as the club wait to assess the full extent of Gareth Bale's calf injury, picked up in the same game.
6112
Manchester United and Real Madrid agreed a potential deal last season worth around £15m to include the Mexican's season loan.
6113
Ellen Weirich (centre) created 'Le Femme' finishing school where she helps transgender females become more feminine.
Here she helps Antoinette to apply makeup .
6114
Medical Tricorders are used to wirelessly scan a patient, either in a ‘sick bay’ on a star ship or during an away mission.
6115
He added that the party was 'really upset' and said it just wanted people to engage in democratic debate, The Press and Journal reported.
6116
Mantel, who saw sales of her books boosted by the adaptation, had said ahead of the BBC version that she refused to 'dumb down' to suit a broad television audience.
6117
Social media users claimed that the tweets were offensive and 'un-Australian' especially on Anzac Day .
We remember and commemorate our ANZACs,' Mr Ebeid wrote on Twitter.
6118
He formed an obsession with photography and after purchasing all the high end equipment, he began to shoot ocean foam, calling the venture 'foam surrealism.'
6119
Prior to his injury, Van Persie (left)
Van Persie's stats are also favourable in comparison to his fellow strikers in terms of creating chances for others.
6120
The scene portrayed a teenager testifying called Gavin Daly, played by Pete Davidson (left), in court during the trial of Janet Johnson-Luna, 32, played by Cecily Strong (right).
6121
The robot love story was created by Joe Penna solving a whopping 1,296 Rubik's Cubes a total of 961 times .
It really is one of those things where the more you do it the better you get at it.’
6122
In addition to striving to bring reality to the world, Kanye said that he is a proponent of people following their dreams, advocating that a 'little self-belief can go a long way'.
6123
Is a design revolution brewing in the Canary Islands?
At the end of Gran Canaria’s best beach – the three-mile-long Las Canteras – they set the seaside to music.
6124
More than 200 people were found queuing outside the new Aldi store when it officially opened its doors at 8am this morning .
6125
The multi-ethnic, mainly Muslim country is stable in a region troubled by ethnic violence from Kyrgyzstan to Afghanistan.
6126
Former Chelsea defender Luiz is left dejected after being embarrassed by Suarez for the second time on Wednesday evening .
Bookings: Pique, Messi .
6127
'The FBI is offering a reward of up to $20,000 for information leading to the arrest of Afzal Khan.'
6128
I think I will be ready to work again next week and to make the players feel that there is still a long way to go.’
The keeper was great.
6129
Evans is suspended so we don’t have many choices.
Blind and Jones were very close to playing but it was not enough.
But we train and I think he is fit enough.’
6130
' Apple won't necessarily buy paper made from trees on that land, but Jackson said the investment will increase the supply of sustainable wood fiber.
6131
PC Mark Bird (pictured) was attending a routine traffic accident with his colleague PC Robert Wilson in October last year when the incident happened .
6132
Diane Blankenship, 45, is charged with having sex with a 14-year-old boy and a 17-year-old boy .
According to WTSP, Blankenship was detained at her home in Tampa, Florida, on Friday night.
6133
Mayweather (left) will put his undefeated professional career on the line against Pacquaio on Saturday .
Diamonds (appeox) 1.60 cts .
6134
This isn't the first time she has transformed herself into a Disney character though.
She uses many products from Mac's Maleficent collection including the eye shadows and eyelashes.
6135
Thabo Sefolosha (pictured) and Pero Antić were both were arrested for trying to prevent police from setting up a crime scene .
Probe:
Arrested:
6136
Tom Ince put Johnny Russell in and Marco Motta's wild challenge saw him red-carded before Darren Bent coolly drove the penalty into the top right corner.
6137
'When I was admitted again, I was told my urea level was 15 when it is supposed to be 6, meaning I was dangerously dehydrated,' she said.
6138
George Costello Jr is currently in jail in Florida on apparently unrelated charges and has been described by relatives as a 'mixed-up' kid.'
6139
The NDRF was established to serve as a reserve of mainly merchant vessels to be activated for national defense and national emergency purposes.
6140
They reveal new views of the two brightest spots in a crater (shown).
The fact these bright spots are in a crater - where such an impact occurred - supports this theory.
6141
The signs have sparked speculation across the village as to the identity of the author and the reason behind the contrite gesture .
6142
'Definitely they missed him because he did not play for 10 or 11 games.
Cattermole said: 'We haven't played too badly all season, really.
6143
The group plan to combine the biological tissue with microscopic wireless technology to provide additional functions and give super human eyesight.
6144
Inter Milan manager Roberto Mancini insists that reports Xherdan Shaqiri is set to leave the club this summer are 'completely made up'.
6145
Eddie Howe was at a loss as to why his Bournemouth side were not awarded a 'clear-cut' penalty .
It was a heartbreaking end to the game for us.
6146
It is not because it will help us understand why men struggle to remember their children’s birthdays or why there are fewer female darts players, but because it may help us find more effective ways to tackle disease.
6147
Rescue:
Harsh punishment:
A friend of one of the children, a 12-year-old girl, said she saw her arguing with her mother Saturday afternoon .
6148
However, aid workers from Animals Asia say the process is being held up by greedy farmers' demands for compensation, and warns the remaining bears could be dead soon unless action is taken quickly.
6149
City players are sprayed with champagne after securing promotion from League One .
City manager Steve Cotterill celebrates promotion with a commemorative bottle of champagne .
6150
Mesut Ozil trains ahead of Arsenal's FA Cup semi final against Reading on Saturday .
'At the moment I am pleased with the consistency of my game,' Ozil told Sport magazine.
6151
In one video, police said a crowd pours beer on a girl who appears to be incapacitated while a male performs a sexual act on her.
6152
10. When seen in a mirror, which of the following words printed in capital letters will look the same as when viewed directly?
Sonny Boy had previous winnings of £20,000.
6153
A new study by experts at Consumer Reports in the US has found 60 per cent of packaged prawns tested were found to contain traces of harmful bacteria .
6154
Mr Prasetyo declared it was necessary to fight drug crime in the country, as he dismissed Australia's withdrawal of its ambassador as a 'momentary reaction'.
6155
I was happy that my partner Chris loved me and that was all I needed.
Determined to lose weight, she decided to join Slimming World for support.
6156
The trip came days after she was seen watching the Bahrain Grand Prix with Juan Carlos II of Spain .
Chilling in the Caribbean: Beatrice during her trip to St. Barts in January .
6157
'A patrol helped them return to their vehicle.
'Police are also keen to remind people to stay in their vehicles if they are stuck in stationary traffic.'
6158
She found out she was expecting triplets, who are due in July, at her 12-week scan at Birmingham Women's Hospital.
Nadine's pregnancy has also baffled doctors.
6159
Chris Copeland, a player for the Indiana Pacers, and his wife, Katrine Saltara, pictured, were both stabbed following an argument outside a New York City club in the early hours of Wednesday, April 8 .
6160
Three more political parties have vowed to teach lifesaving skills in schools, backing The Mail on Sunday’s campaign to add first aid to the curriculum.
6161
Lambert scored 20 goals for Southampton - he may not be world class, but he is better than the alternatives .
Lambert should have joined Aston Villa in January.
6162
And she adds that her son does not need any more books than he already has.
'By the way, a formal invite from [retracted] will be arriving in your mailboxes soon...'
6163
Great Britain team-mate and Olympic champion Nicola Adams said: 'I have trained, competed and travelled all over the world with Natasha for the last five years so will be really sad to see her leave.
6164
A video from the Philadelphia Office of Transportation shows characters such as Bubbleman talking to residents about the dangers of phone usage while walking around the city .
6165
Justice League NYC organized a rally Saturday night at the Western District station where Gray was taken .
'Freddie Gray passed.
'All lives matter.
6166
At the same time the average herd has risen from 64 cows to 134.
While productions restrictions have been scrapped, the EU will provide a safety net for dairy farmers.
6167
The article also reported that Sony Music will not grant Tidal a license to stream from Sony artists, one of whom is, of course, Jay Z's wife Beyonce.
6168
On Saturday, Deila’s side were held to a draw by Caley Thistle.
Ofere (left) wheels away in celebration after swiftly levelling the score for Inverness against Celtic .
6169
To do this they mapped out the  brain of the honeybee and recreated it with circuits that fire on and off in an organic brain, Discovery Magazine reported.
6170
In the footage, which has gone viral on social media, Mr Stack recounts his own experience with a 'Caucasian officer' in South Carolina.
'I feel like people need to understand...
6171
It is thought that the dogs taking part in the competition in Yakutsk were not experienced hunting animals but were instead only there for 'sporting purposes'.
6172
Hoping to raise awareness for the inhumane treatment experienced by big cats in captivity, they approached a number of animal trainers for help make the concept for the film a reality.
6173
Normal service resumed at about 9:30am.
He added: ‘It was necessary for the train to be cleaned before we could continue to let passengers onto the service.
6174
Derby loanee Farrend Rawson played in their 1-0 win over Brighton on Easter Monday but there is confusion as to whether the defender had already been recalled.
6175
'I need to go somewhere to lose my weight naturally because I can’t do it on my own,' he said.
The former factory worker said he has always had a problem with food.
6176
Nathan Dailo, from Sydney, uploaded a video to his YouTube channel demonstrating how he gets his three-month-old son Seth to drift off in just 42 seconds.
6177
But it does value the relic's symbolic value as a powerful representation of Christ's suffering.
6178
Above, he wrote that the Leibniz notation was 'extremely difficult'
Gandy gave the papers to The Archive Centre at King's College in Cambridge in 1977.
6179
There is too much dust on the shelves".
Despite bearing the Kitson name - Mr Ross' middle-name - the two stores in LAX  (pictured) are not run by him .
6180
‘Hopefully, people will not turn up.
The fact the football club aren’t doing so sends a very poor message.
He is an important player for us.
6181
A group of 15 men were arrested on suspicion of 'multiple aggravated murder motivated by religious hate'.last
'We resisted for an hour and only stopped when the rescue boat arrived.’
6182
Jessa and Ben are both champions of healthy eating, and even announced their pregnancy in an adorable video while making smoothies .
'I'm hoping I'm having triplets because I've been eating so much!'
6183
She is being held without bond.
An affidavit revealed that he had been soliciting sex from men through Craigslist .
Great people,' Tony Johnson told WUSA9.
6184
Using their unique sound signature, researchers will now be able to detect different types of eruptions and record the gases being released far more accurately .
6185
'The engine is ready for flight ... and ready for other . commercial users,' Meyerson said.
The New Shepard system will take astronauts to space on suborbital journeys.
6186
Avoca Beach in the Central Coast, about 95kms north of Sydney, resembled something from a horror film on Tuesday .
Possibly about to be swept to sea'
6187
'The people's Prince' continued to show off his playful side, high-fiving a young boy who was waiting behind a barricade .
6188
Confession: Vera Maresova (right) was initially arrested over the death of a 70-year-old woman last August, but has now admitted killing five more people between 2010 and 2014 following a police investigation .
6189
'All the kids ate what was served and there is no food brought from home.
The meal at the French state school costs parents just €2.60 (£1.90) each day.
6190
'We're in Colorado.
Extreme drought conditions also spread into Nevada and southern Oregon, along with smaller pockets in Utah and Arizona.
6191
An FBI agent who investigated the disappearance after neighbors thought it was suspicious said that the family had 'many connections to individuals associated with the terrorist attacks on 9/11/2001'.
6192
There are passengers waiting for the train...
Police officers and station staff try to search for the assailants who have all boarded the train .
6193
After a few weeks of friendly conversations with Heinrich, the man said he wanted to marry her and move to Austria to be with her and his daughter, she told Valente.
6194
'No, no, you've editorialized,' Paul said.
'It’s not even that viable to say they’re a national threat to Israel,' he added later.
6195
Water drips down from the elephant's trunk, after it attempted to douse the buffalo bull that came too close .
6196
Speaking to WPVI, Collins said: 'I just saw him and jumped down... just instincts'.
Septa officials commended Collins's bravery, but said that others shouldn't copy him.
6197
Labour claims its tax break – which would last three years – would be funded by a further squeeze on tax avoidance, higher levies on foreign buyers and cuts in tax relief for landlords who fail to keep properties up to standard.
6198
Thomas, a former college basketball player, was inspired to become an official in the 1990s when she attended a meeting with her brother, Lea.
6199
Hill will be buried in a private service on Wednesday.
Hill used her limited energy to inspire people and raise money for research into the cancer that took her life .
6200
Designed to wear over your swimsuit top, it’s soft as your favorite tee and incredibly lightweight - even while wearing it in the water!
7.
6201
In Dungog the train tracks were damaged (left) and in Bondi, in Sydney, a flooded road caused a traffic jam (right)
6202
The video concludes with the daredevil doing a little dance in celebration and the people in the crowd clapping and cheering.
6203
Van Gaal was highlighting these two because of their superior football intelligence.
Of course there are exceptions: Juan Mata is a cultured, classy individual on and off the pitch.
6204
Weaver attributed her long life to treating others well and eating her own cooking .
After retiring, she lived with her granddaughter.
6205
Lucy Mecklenburgh shot to fame as one of the postergirls of The Only Way Is Essex - and she's not the only family member making waves in the modelling world.
6206
Daryl Clark is ready to take on his former team-mates at Castleford Tigers, his boyhood club .
'It will be a completely different side,' Betts said.
6207
Apprentice star Alan Sugar is now a billionaire for the first time, after his wealth increased by £140million to £1.04billion.
£33million .
6208
He found the paintings change over time - from orange to blue.
: Researcher have found orange is by far the most common colour in art.
6209
I've hitched all over Europe and even to Africa and more recently I've been spending time in Venezuela and Colombia,' Mr Hatton said.
6210
Mr Bradley said the critters were of 'high significance to traditional land owners' with record of bilby populations dating back '15 million years'.
6211
Another Twitter sleuthing website sampled more than 320,000 of Clinton's followers and found that a much larger number of them were 'fake'
6212
She set about interviewing the staff, who number at least 100, to build up a comparable picture of the American version of Upstairs, Downstairs.
6213
Barry Hawkins celebrates after qualifying for the second round of the World Snooker Championship .
Hawkins said: 'I can't keep putting myself through that.
6214
Slovakia are the surprise leaders in qualifying Group C thanks to a 2-1 win over Spain in Zilina in October and have a maximum 15 points from five of 10 matches.
6215
It was a great experience to spend time with the England squad.
It was a great day for the sport and showed how freely people can play when the situation allows it.
6216
The replica fired its cannons as it sailed up the French river Charente on Saturday to the military shipyards of Rochefort, where both vessels were built.
6217
The comments by Mr Johnson, who is standing to be a Tory MP in a west London constituency, will be seen as an attempt to position himself as a future party leader.
6218
Ladival Sun Protection, SPF 30 .
'Avocado oil is a good moisturiser, but it's not clear how it 'aids the development of the cutaneous barrier'.
6219
The watchdog accused the school of cherry-picking privileged white children using its strict faith-based entry requirements.
6220
Sterling, pictured in action against Arsenal, has rejected a new £100,000-a-week deal with Liverpool .
Alex Song will also be allowed to leave the club.
6221
Lindegaard tied the knot with the Swedish model last year in a romantic beach wedding in Mauritius.
But despite his failure on the pitch, he's definitely winning away from it.
6222
The study, published in Springer’s journal Agronomy for Sustainable Development, suggests that the reported high levels of this substance may indeed originate from tobacco.
6223
In California, where 131 of the 147 measles cases could be found, a vaccination bill has generated intense debates pitting personal rights against public health.
6224
The journalist and lifestyle guru behind the ‘I Quit Sugar’ book and website complained to Mamamia after her image was used to illustrate a story about orthorexia nervosa – a condition defined by an obsession for eating ‘healthily’.
6225
Alli paid tribute to Tottenham boss Pochettino for trusting young players .
'We couldn't think of anything wrong, really, about it - it is the perfect club for me, hopefully.
6226
In an interview two years ago Bowen said he was off benefits and saving up to get a mortgage.
He added housing benefit was still being paid last week despite requests for it to stop.
6227
Renee's thousands of social media fans were quick to applaud her mature and empowering response .
I love moving, being strong and always full of energy.
6228
Instead he complained he is 'bedridden and worsening' after breaking his hip and arm in fall a year ago.
Keith Bennett was taken on June 16, 1964, after he left home to visit his grandmother.
6229
'That will be the answer to Manchester United or any other club that asks the question.
Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea has been linked with a summer move to Real .
6230
When asked by GMA how she felt when  Bruce introduce his 'real self' to the world on Friday night, Chrystie broke down in tears as she described watching the Diane Sawyer interview with Bruce and their children.
6231
Game 2 is Wednesday night in Atlanta.
Zach Randolph had 16 points and 11 rebounds, and Marc Gasol added 15 points and 11 rebounds.
Jeff Green had 11.
6232
But yesterday the chairman of governors said that they knew nothing about the change to the contract, which was also dismissed as ‘bonkers’ by parents who said pre-school children could not be expected to understand such complex issues.
6233
Katie decided to forgive her husband for cheating, however, relationship expert Tracey Cox has revealed it can be hard for people to move on .
Katie also admitted: 'I'll never forgive him and I'll never forget.'
6234
First Aintree managing director John Baker tried to ban pictures of women behaving badly or dressed inappropriately on Ladies’ Day by threatening to take away accreditation from the photographers responsible, even though images add to the charm of the occasion.
6235
Sorenstam set her LPGA tour record of consecutive rounds under par in 2004 .
Ko got back to even par on the par-5 second, hitting a chip to a foot.
6236
The 32-year-old says she applies the liquid to his head and neck as it helps him keep calm and focused.
Speaking to Click Orlando, she said: 'Why is it not OK?
6237
'Discriminatory': Tania Rahman received a letter from Salisbury City Council telling her it would not accept her offer to run a food stall at a St George's Day event because it 'only wanted English food'
6238
'Once I feel like I have got one up on this course it takes two back.
It would be sacrilege not to play here no matter how much it frustrates you,' McDowell said on Sunday .
6239
Members of the National Union of Teachers is expected to call for a vote on industrial action this weekend, like the strike here in 2013 .
6240
It was a very poignant moment.
He also enjoyed the shopping.
It was the ultimate holiday treat - it was just a shame I couldn't arrange a selfie with her.
6241
, researchers have found he was a Neanderthal who fell down a sinkhole around 150,000 years ago.
It is nearly 100,000 years older than other previously sequenced Neanderthal DNA.
6242
Peter says he spent around £4,000 building the hull and added: 'Most of it was done flat pack at home.
The catamavan cruises up and down the River Swale in Kent, near Mr Thurston's home .
6243
Philippe Coutinho is becoming Liverpool's go-to guy, according to Sportsmail's Jamie Carragher .
Coutinho starred for Liverpool in their 2-0 win against Newcastle United on Monday night .
6244
Bravo celebrates his penalty save but Barcelona were fortunate to take a lead into half time .
And full-back Orban risked a first half sending off with foul after foul.
6245
An inventor has solved the problem of the millions of coffee capsules that are thrown away each year after use - with sugar-coated pods that dissolve in water.
6246
And teachers said that 60 per cent of the abusive comments online had been written by pupils.
She was told she was ‘ugly’ and ‘her husband could do better’.
6247
According to CBS News, which first broke the story, the posting was titled 'DHS-CIA-FBI TRAITORS HOME ADDRESSES.'
6248
An explosive dossier compiled by MP Geoffrey Dickens is believed to be among 114 files known to have been lost or destroyed by the Home Office.
6249
Barcelona couldn’t kill the game, even after Orellana’s late sending off, with Messi scooping the ball over Alvarez but inches over the crossbar too.
6250
A cold front coming over Georgia is likely to bring more stormy weather and strong winds .
Golf fans flock to leave August National as the rain pours down on Tuesday .
6251
Back home in South Carolina, Barner asked a local tattoo artist what was wrong and the artist said that her skin had been  'overworked' in an attempt to bring out a white color in the tattoo.
6252
Mr Fregoe says he's received snow from people visiting the snowman from as far away as Vermont, as well as closer communities like the Hamptons.
6253
He was conceived when she was 40.
Jane Parker had her son Rupert in 2009 when she was 41 after having treatment at Dr Zhai's clinic .
6254
But as the confident snowboarder adjusts the camera, he is oblivious to the chairlift swinging into view behind.
6255
For 71 per cent of voters say they are choosing politicians and have no need to know about their spouses or offspring, a ComRes survey for the Daily Mail and ITV News reveals.
6256
At the time of the attack, police released this grainy CCTV footage showing Khoorban (right) leaving the club .
He threatened to 'finish her' off if she moved.
6257
Xiong admitted to kidnapping the girl and said that she tried to escape from him on Highway 26.
This is not Xiong's first brush with the law.
6258
'They considered ending his struggle many times but always decided not to.
After creating specific design files, a 3D printer was used to manufacture the new limb (pictured)
6259
Her daughter Kim Kardashian told reporters Friday in New York that the family will be sitting down together to watch his TV revelations.
6260
The wreckage of the teacher's Hyundai Sonata which was hit by the student's Dodge Charger .
Police are continuing to investigate the accident.
6261
Last season, Van Gaal joined United after the World Cup in Brazil to find the club committed to a two-and-half week marathon comprising visits to Los Angeles, Pasadena, Denver, Washington, Detroit and, finally, Miami.
6262
The speculation over whether Kevin Pietersen will return to the England fold will overshadow the tour .
It is a moot point whether Graves' words will help them or not.
6263
David Cameron is trying to be Prime Minister without taking the job interview, Ed Miliband claimed today ahead of tonight's TV debates.
6264
Michael Easy, 29, from Southampton, Hampshire, sparked a nationwide police manhunt after going on the run in 2013 after attacking a woman at a party.
6265
A girl who believed she had a bad hangover was found to have 13 blood clots in her lungs.
She was horrified to be told the blockage was so big she was probably days from death.
6266
Metals were a recurring feature on the catwalk.
The Any Step show stood out for its bondage-style dress made of only leather straps and buckles.
6267
American rap group Wu-Tang Clan (L - R) Ghostface Killah, Masta Killa, Raekwon, RZA, Ol' Dirty Bastard, GZA, U-God and Method Man pose for a April 1997 portrait in New York City, New York.
6268
Also on Monday, five other flights flew to Kathmandu carrying Israeli rescue teams, IDF soldiers and medical crews in a bid to help victims of the deadly earthquake, according to the Jerusalem Post.
6269
Robison, Schwab and Celis have reportedly already resigned.
He was accused of using a racial epithet against a suspect in the mid 1990s but the allegation was dismissed.
6270
Emergency services were called to the scene after two were reported in a serious condition .
'Police are currently investigating the incident,' she said.
6271
Chernova's ban is due to expire on June 21 – in time for this year’s World Championships in Beijing in August and, of course, the 2016 Olympics in Rio.
6272
She was investigated by the General Medical Council, which concluded that there was no case to answer.
The GMC concluded that the review is ‘necessary for the protection of the public’.
6273
DFAT has since reprimanded the staff member responsible for the stunt, which saw 30 low-ranking employees told they needed to apply for expressions of interest if they wanted to keep their jobs by moving to Melbourne.
6274
Nicholson was standing next to the unidentified teenager who was holding the replica of the gun.
The gun that officers thought was real had an orange tip indicating that it was fake.
6275
Pacquiao has a new camera which he points at everyone he comes across .
‘His level came up the day the fight was announced.
’ The noise was deafening.
6276
Replays proved that to be incorrect as they showed slight contact on Fabregas' knee - perhaps not enough for a penalty but certainly enough contact to make the caution incorrect.
6277
But while they cannot speak, Mrs Barden said they do not fail to communicate their desires through gesturing.
'We're also lucky to have support from both sides of the family.'
6278
Other people present were disturbed by her actions.'
Mr Baker said that Murray hit Mrs Deadman while drunkenly gesturing with her hand and that she accepts she was reckless.
6279
Because they know it’s going to be a sales call.’
He explained that their tactics include starting with warm questions before going more financial .
6280
According to reports, a 100mph collision between a steam excursion and a First Great Western high speed train was missed by barely a minute.
6281
Two shark attacks left a surfer and fisherman with serious injuries.
The shark soon had enough of all the attention and swam back out to sea .
6282
Internet users have also claimed the animal in the clip is a Malaysian sun bear (pictured) which is suffering from alopecia, a disease which causes baldness .
6283
The robotic vehicle carried a scientific payload capable of measuring ocean conditions under the ice.
Icefin is also modular, similar to vehicles used on space missions.
6284
The two sides played out a goalless draw in the first leg of their Champions League quarter-final last week, with Atletico goalkeeper Jan Oblak widely praised for denying Real a crucial away goal.
6285
Death Row Records co-founder fell at a previous hearing while addressing murder charges levied against him .
His bail was set at $25million at the previous hearing.
6286
The important thing is the plane landed safely,' Price said.
A spokesman from Icelandair said that though people were concerned there was no detour, the pilots followed protocol in the situation.
6287
Accused balcony murderer Gable Tostee (pictured) was denied an early release for his drunken car chase with police across state lines after where he was found to be four times over the legal limit for drink driving .
6288
Lindsay-Hague and replacement scrum-half Robson then swapped late tries to bring the game to a dramatic if scrappy conclusion.
6289
Harley Renshaw was diagnosed with cancer in his kidney, neck, lungs and bones.
He donned a superhero costume during his radiotherapy treatment, to help him feel brave .
6290
The final result took three hours to achieve after Maria simply googled pictures of bunnies, picking one she liked best and replicating the image on her face.
6291
A Hokota city official said they had counted 149 dolphins, revising an earlier figure of 130.
Three had been successfully returned to the sea by the late afternoon, he added.
6292
What you can’t afford to do is let players sit and study the fixtures and start looking at how many points they need.
Their form has struck fear into other teams.
6293
Pretty popular: Barbie's style-centric Instagram account, @BarbieStyle, is painstakingly planned - and now has three quarters of a million followers .
6294
'But one thing I will do, I'm going to take my hat off to them and respect those guys because those are the guys that paved the way for me to be where I'm at today.'
6295
Mertesacker pictured during a training session with his Arsenal team-mates on Friday ahead of the clash .
'I feel that we are really sharp and eager to repeat it.
6296
Alexis Sanchez has had no trouble adapting to the Premier League, scoring 20 times for Arsenal so far .
David de Gea - Manchester United .
6297
‘His mate was hiding behind a tree.
Narrabeen residents have been advised that another centre is available at Pittwater RSL at Monva Vale.
6298
Police in Rhein Erft, received a bizarre phone call explaining that a large kangaroo was spotted 'happily' hopping through a field.
6299
'And the truth is that the number of first-time buyers has fallen steadily over recent years, and I want to reverse that, and I want to help families get on that housing ladder.'
6300
The painting allegedly hanging in the home of SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon shows her as a dominatrix (pictured) Couple:
Portrait:
6301
He was also investigated in the 2011-2012 school year for inappropriately touching a female student on her lower back.
6302
The Washington Post was first to report Clinton's latest hire.
Clinton's staff also includes several key members who came over from the White House.
6303
Neighbors of the family told Channel 9 Yordi was battling cancer, reports WFTV.
'It's really sad because they didn't deserve it, they were good people,'  Jessica Garcia, told WPTV.
6304
But Cherry was unimpressed and wants the players out of Elland Road.
Cherry, who played for Leeds between 1972 and 1982, was left to lament the situation at his old club.
6305
'Twenty-five years ago, a team of scientists from Cornell University and MIT discovered that each blast from the bombardier beetle is actually a series of extraordinarily fast micro-pulses,' Assistant Professor Moore said.
6306
Church:
 George earned a reputation as an intellectual leader and a leading figure in some of the most prominent events in the U.S. Church .
6307
He admitted there are 'great parts of the country now where there is just no Liberal Democrat presence' citing the North of England and areas where they are fighting against Labour.
6308
United are looking to bring in  talented younger players to boost squad numbers ahead of U19 Youth League .
6309
'It makes me want to vomit,' he exclaims later on.
Pass that here: After Sam's ruled out of the game, his younger sister Charlie confidently steps up to the mark .
6310
I’ve played with lads who have been released and can’t afford to pay a mortgage.
Duff’s knee injury taught him to prepare for life after a playing career and he already has his coaching badges.
6311
She says that she was reluctant because he had previously made threats about punching her in the stomach.
Bako fled the scene as the girl let out an 'ungodly scream.’
6312
It's about helping him out and showing him a great day.'
Most treat it as light relief and invite family or friends to act as their caddies, including Tiger Woods this year for the first time since 2004.
6313
Andres Iniesta has praised Manchester United boss Louis van Gaal for helping him make the breakthrough into the Barcelona first team.
6314
'When Kate was photographed in Blue Almonds whilst pregnant, interest in Moses baskets definitely increased and sales of similar infant beds  also boomed.'
6315
Ronny Deila  has confirmed Hearts captain Danny Wilson features on a list of Celtic’s summer transfer targets.
We are looking for central defenders.
6316
Forty-nine precious stones followed.
As naturally-occurring pearls are rare, it's expected that Elliot's stash could fetch a princely sum.
6317
Jonny May crosses for a spectacular try during Gloucester's 30-19 victory against Exeter .
‘It was a tough Six Nations but I still believe in myself,’ he said.
6318
'There she has a second chance, starting with a long process of rehabilitation to overcome the traumas they suffered and hoping to one day be back to the wild.'
6319
Azria's personal office is adorned with a domed gold-leaf ceiling and a number of rooms feature one-of-a-kind lighting fixtures, according to the Los Angeles Times.
6320
Dodgy results will happen to all sides of course.
Aaron Ramsey scores in the Gunners' 2-0 win at Monaco as they fell short again when it really counts .
6321
‘Someone has got to be the hero for Blackburn Rovers,’ said Bowyer.
Rovers boss Bowyer believes his side will be buoyed by the 'extra 20,000 people' at Ewood Park .
6322
Sevilla coach Unai Emery has guided the club to fifth in the La Liga table ahead of the visit of Barcelona .
6323
Rotherham have been charged with fielding an ineligible player in their Sky Bet Championship meeting with Brighton on Easter Monday.
6324
Klitschko is keen to face Deontay Wilder (left) in a unification clash later in his career .
'You cannot say boxing was dead or unpopular.
6325
Ms D’Addario’s friend Chris Reid told the Daily Telegraph: ‘When she found out he had a wife and kids in Fiji she left him but then, unbeknown to us the reasons, she got back together with him.'
6326
It is not clear what caused him to drive in front of the train.
According to local news reports, the 50-year-old driver of the car was trapped for about 15 minutes as firefighters fought to dismantle the wreckage .
6327
Harry Kane awaits his chance to impress in a crossbar challenge during open training at White Hart Lane .
6328
Critics said it was ‘ludicrous’ that such items were being handed out when the NHS was rationing routine treatments.
‘This does not mean a script for every ill.
6329
The German primary school teacher will give birth in a matter of weeks to four babies, conceived following 18 months of fertility treatment.
I don’t think I will have any problems.’
6330
'My only worry is the number of people who probably think I've been ignoring them when they've been saying "Hello John" to Neil all this time.'
6331
In both cases, police are investigating the possibility of an insider helping the thieves.
Raid took place over three-day Easter weekend when workers had left building.
6332
Daryl Janmaat has compared Newcastle's upcoming match vs Swansea to playing in the World Cup semi-final .
'It's a big game,' the 25-year-old defender told the Evening Chronicle.
6333
She added that the company had acted quickly to remove the product from distribution and done all it could to trace the remaining cots, all of which were accepted by Judge Holt.
6334
Sunshine Coast Snake Catchers 24/7 Richie Gilbert was called to remove the snake and release it back into the bushland just kilometres away.
6335
Every two years it appears 'bands' of magnetic field move to the surface.
Shown here are images of the sun over one cycle showing changes in its activity .
6336
David Cameron said he started supporting Aston Villa because his uncle was 'involved in the club'.
When we get close to the bottom I get nervous, but I don't know what happened.'
6337
The instinct could date back to early human evolution in Africa, where spiders with very strong venom existed millions of years ago.
6338
Two children have been killed in what police are calling an accidental vehicle fire at a Las Vegas apartment complex.
6339
Gregory van der Wiel (right) says he's not interested in leaving Paris Saint-Germain in the summer .
He told L'Equipe: 'I am genuinely happy at PSG.
6340
But not everyone was upset by the shirt.
The music festival will start again on Friday with performances from ACDC, Azealia Banks, Alabama Shakes and more.
6341
After just four minutes, Bale's game was over.
The defender seemed fractionally offside, but despite Kameni's cries, the goal was allowed to stand.
6342
Technogym has kitted out Chelsea's Cobham training centre with the latest state-of-the-art equipment .
Chelsea fitness coach Carlos Lalin has hailed the club's partnership with Technogym .
6343
Cristiano Ronaldo returned to the club's Valdebebas training ground after helping Portugal go top of Euro 2016 qualifying Group I with a 2-1 win against Serbia on Sunday evening.
6344
No recovery time has been set by the club but Musacchio is expected to be sidelined for at least six months.
'We hope we can all help him in his recovery.
6345
Hulk Hogan's ex-wife has listed her Simi Valley mansion in California for sale at $5.5million.
Linda and Hulk Hogan were together for 25 years before their divorce in 2009.In late 2011
6346
Manchester has become a powerhouse of English football through City’s ascent.
Ultimately, Di Maria must provide more, and will want to, but at this moment he should start on the bench.
6347
'I was a rabbit in the headlights.
He continued even after police arrived.
I wanted him to die so much I just kept on stabbing him until he was dead.'
6348
Joe Pentangelo said detectives subsequently searched Cullum's Brooklyn home, where they also found 19 Kindle tablets, seven iPads, two laptops and a 'large amount' of toiletries, according to the Associated Press.
6349
The cartoons by illustrator Ryan Chapman have all been designed for when you find yourself in the middle of an awkward pause.
Blame Valentine's Day.'
6350
Slinking back into public view: Nicolas Sarkozy is driven to court where he faces charges over the funding of his failed 2012 bid to retain the presidency of the country - two days after being heralded as France's saviour .
6351
All we have done just to freshen him up.’
Early exits included Al Co, one of three to get no further than the first fence, and Unioniste, who fell at the fifth.
6352
There was no news from the board meeting on the future of national selector James Whitaker, who appeared vulnerable after Downton's dismissal.
6353
When she woke up, she had no idea she had been pregnant or given birth to her son Felix (pictured now at nine months old)
6354
'Home' Test and ODI series' in the meantime have taken place in the United Arab Emirates, England's destination for the second time this autumn, a tour for which an exact schedule is still to be confirmed.
6355
'Nazi Germany alone bears responsibility.'
He subsequently expressed 'regret' at what he called his inadvertent use of the erroneous term 'Polish death camp.'
6356
Referee Mark Clattenburg has been named to take charge of the Manchester derby on Sunday, despite having sent off three players from United and City this season.
6357
Why our Zayden?' a heartbroken Ms Veal told 60 Minutes.
After his arrest, Hicks tried to blame the murder on another person and reportedly lied in investigations .
6358
Chelsea are set to follow Tottenham’s lead and take part in a post-season friendly Down Under in June.
'It’s something we are thinking about, a good way to celebrate.
6359
Harris' family reacted to the decision in a statement released by their lawyer.
 'I thought to myself after reading several cases, 'I don't understand how this can happen'.
6360
Currently Dr Briden says women who do have endometriosis can have surgery to remove the uteral lining that causes it.
Naturopathic approach:
6361
In keeping with this approach, Catalina named each work with just the celebrity's first name, making each piece more personal.
Penelope Cruz:
6362
Five minutes later, Joseph raced away to score from his own chip and collect after deft work by Houston and Francois Louw.
6363
Lamas did well to get back to his feet after the initial knockdown but Mendes swarmed him and subsequently landed some punishing blows, including a knee from the clinch.
6364
No family escapes the slaughter with Tywin's grandson, the young King Joffrey killed by poisoned wine at his wedding.
6365
Roberto Mancini has cancelled his Inter Milan players' day off on Easter and ordered them into training .
'You always hope that things will change,' he added.
6366
But he said: ‘When England come calling, you shouldn’t say no.’
Stewart was a wicketkeeper-batsman for England.
‘England have said he’s not on their radar.
6367
A spring-breaker filmed her own terrified reaction when a manatee floated past her in Florida .
The video was posted on Youtube by Katie Gingrich, a friend of the girl.
6368
She told him she was feeling 'very dizzy' before the accident and remembers her children crying out.
It has happened to me, to lose three children at once,' he told SBS radio.
6369
Anyone with internet access is bound to remember the hilarious viral video, 'Charlie Bit Me'.
'It became viral and once that happened there was nothing I could do.
6370
In an interview with NBC Bay Area, Elizabeth Sedway said the airline was concerned she might collapse during the eight-hour flight to San Jose, California.
6371
Ms Dawes refused, but did undergo major surgery to remove a 'cancerous' tumour from her right breast as well as lymph nodes from her armpit.
6372
'It was very straightforward when I was top 10 in the world playing both tours,' Casey told Sportsmail ahead of his first Masters appearance since 2012.
6373
Hughes spent a night in jail after Capitol Police arrested him.
His Russian-born wife, Alena, told the AP that her husband acted out of patriotism for the United States.
6374
There are also 14 England caps and one goal.
Sterling receives Europe's Golden Boy award ahead of a game against Arsenal in December last year .
6375
The follow-up, Enchanted Forest, is expected to do just as well .
Basford says her success is down to people resisting modern technology in their leisure time.
6376
I’m confident that Krul will stay at Newcastle.
We’re fortunate of the location we have and the crowd we get.
There’s an opportunity to move forward quickly.
6377
She follows a host of other celebrities to back Pacquiao, including The Fighter star Mark Wahlberg, NFL quarterback Tim Teebow, basketball legend Robert Jaworski and actor Robert Duvall who have met with the boxer at his camp.
6378
The police were notified of the video after it was leaked online.
Danher said sadly the child is too young to truly understand what is going on.
6379
A decision to file charges would kick start the EU's most prominent antitrust suit since its ten year-long campaign against Microsoft Corp. - the firm was forced to pay out more than a £1billion in fines in 2012.
6380
Sam Burgess has been selected in the back row as Bath seek to bounce back from the end of their European dream by defeating Newcastle on Friday night.
6381
'It's very nice to feel that I have the respect of people up and down the country.
McCoy said he thought he could retire quietly but is glad he's had the chance to farewell racing properly .
6382
The slick photographs carry all the logos and artwork typically seen in official ISIS releases, suggesting the Middle East-based militants have taken full control of Boko Haram propaganda.
6383
She received a further blow this month when police admitted that her brain had been cremated in 2009, after it had been sent to a hospital in Sheffield for examination, without their knowledge.
6384
She describes her collecting as a 'labour of love' and says every day is dominated by her royal obsession.
It takes a lot of work [to maintain] but it's a labour of love.'
6385
Manchester City .
Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany is doubtful for Sunday's derby against Manchester United with a hamstring injury.
6386
Hayes routinely attended meetings, was copied on emails among senior staff and requested information or clerical assistance from state employees .
6387
John Lewis has knocked £250 in an attempt to get rid of their leftover stock- more than three months after the Christmas break .
– Follow The Fairies .
6388
Tickets go on sale on May 27 and the match is sure to sell out quickly with the likely capacity of the one court used being around 7,000, as it is for the AEGON Championships, which takes place two weeks before Wimbledon.
6389
Serie A club Parma have been deducted four points for breaching financial regulations.
The club were declared bankrupt last month and have not paid their players all season.
6390
He was jailed for four-and-a-half years at Warwick Crown Court yesterday after admitting fraud and deception after the judge ignored his plea for leniency because he was 'terrified' of going to prison.
6391
Rogers told police he had 'been waiting for an opportunity to get this person' and when he saw Mr Hatch walking back from the garden he 'opened his door and attacked.'
6392
Om Amara is reportedly a female foreign battalion, with just two Arabic speakers who mercilessly patrol the streets of Raqqa.
Terror leader:
6393
'Although household income growth is minimal, Sydney's housing market continues to reach new record highs, with values increasing over the past 35 months,' Tim Lawless, the head of research at CoreLogic RP Data, said.
6394
All the talk before the team’s departure may have been about Kevin Pietersen but the real focus of this tour is likely to fall on another South African-born batsman in Trott.
6395
An Italian restaurant that had been open for decades closed its doors last week in a separate rent-related dispute.
6396
Meanwhile, for some of Krul’s critics on social media, the fact that it was an intense local derby puts his behaviour almost beyond the pale.
6397
While competing in the iconic sporting event, Bruce was known for his bulging muscles and athletic physique .
Body hair gone:
1980s:
1990s:
2000s:
6398
The FA will then charge £250 for every subsequent year of renewal.
The FA, Premier League and Football League have been discussing how best to cope with FIFA opting out.
6399
Mrs Pereiro-Mendez arrives yesterday .
She also says Mr Pappas made ‘overtly discriminatory comments’ during a business trip to Germany.
6400
However, Salmon had not flown out to the Caribbean at licence fee payers’ expense, just to check whether Joe Wilson’s hard-working BBC sports team were giving value for money.
6401
Few people can fail be wowed by technicolor butterfly wings that 'sparkle' in the sunlight.
This close-up image shows scales on the wings of the monarch butterfly .
6402
The Chancellor (pictured with IMF managing director Christine Lagarde) said the crisis in Greece had made the mood at International Monetary Fund talks in Washington this week ‘notably more gloomy’
6403
Hughes missed his club’s Champions Cup defeat to holders Toulon last Sunday, as he awaited his appeal hearing.
6404
The former child star recently appeared in a West End play and admitted she felt like the UK press treated her with respect .
Out and about:
6405
They continue to visciously beat the man as he lies helpless on the ground .
Some of the attackers return to the car, but others stamp the motionless man's head .
6406
Nate Silver, who correctly predicted the winner in 49 of 50 US states in 2008, believes that neither Labour or the Tories will be unable to get enough support together for a majority government .
6407
'It's too early to put a time frame on his return with swelling making a precise diagnosis tricky, but it goes without saying that he knows he will get every possible help here medically to get him back out onto the paddock as soon as possible.'
6408
We will miss you.'
But it was also a moving insight into how a child copes with a disease which resulted in Hayley having the body of a 105-year-old.
6409
It turns out the 55-year-old has been attending regular Zumba classes, and it's paid off.
Zumba is a dance fitness programme that combines several dance styles and aerobic activity .
6410
The new king of Instagram?
Poser:
A scantily-clad woman is seen bending over to clean Toutouni's lavish fish tank at his home in Los Angeles .
6411
Mr Miliband accused the Prime Minister of refusing to turn up to answer for his time in government, while Ukip's Nigel Farage said it was a 'great shame' that Mr Cameron was a no-show.
6412
Manchester City defender Aleksandar Kolarov (right) challenges Lionel Messi at the Nou Camp last month .
6413
Porto supporters gave their team a hero's welcome following their 6-1 defeat at Bayern Munich on Tuesday .
6414
Ramos has shown character to bounce back from his errors, as his penalty for Spain in 2012 showed .
Ramos will play in all of them no doubt.
6415
Barcelona ended up signing 31-year-old Jeremy Mathieu from Valencia for £14.5m and 29-year-old Thomas Vermaelen from Arsenal for £15m but influential voices at the Catalan club urged then sporting director Andoni Zubizarreta to bid for 20-year-old Stones instead.
6416
A Dominican news report says the power couple spent part of their trip staying with sugar barons Alfy and Pepe Fanjul at Casa de Campo, a private Dominican resort they own.
6417
But analysis of popular search terms on Google has revealed the areas around the world that seem to be most concerned with sexually transmitted diseases.
6418
He served originally as an officer in the Royal Navy and then as a member of the Royal Family,' the citation said.
New Zealand Commemoration Medal, 1990:
6419
Tevez pulled off the 'chicken dance' after scoring a crucial goal during Boca's 2-0 win over River Plate in 2004 .
'I don't know if I will leave.
6420
Mr Lunev stepped on the landmine while inspecting the ruins of the village of Shyrokyne, which has seen heavy shelling, with a small group of journalists .
6421
It is not the first time the Beckhams have stayed at the glamorous resort, with Victoria and David renewing their vows there during a romantic getaway in 2004 .
6422
It's the latest shocking act by the Islamists who are waging a campaign of terror against other religions that has involved mass beheadings and raping.
6423
Muller lets out a cry as the supporters joined in behind him after Bayern Munich reached the last four .
'It's easy to love my players now,' said Guardiola.
6424
China were caught cold when Kirby dribbled the ball down the left and curved a tremendous ball with the outside of her right boot to Taylor, who fired past Zhang Yue for the early opener.
6425
Following trials, the California-based video site said it will launch in more regions 'soon'.
When it officially launches, Music Key will cost £9.99 a month ($9.99, €9.99).
6426
But once the three-week program ended, she insisted she had her problem under enough control to move on her own to New York City.
Source: Anxiety UK .
6427
Model and environmental scientist Laura Wells uses figure to flaunt ocean inspired swimwear .
The swimsuits are made form 100 per cent recycled materials .
6428
We have important players coming back which is good news.
Manager John Carver admitted Sissoko could easily have been shown a straight red, however.
6429
He has said she can come back as long as she says sorry - but the 81-year-old has denied hitting him and claimed the ban has devastated her because the cove is 'my whole life'.
6430
Adam admitted it was 'overwhelming' changing the babies 'because they're so tiny'
'This week will be an interesting transition,' said Adam.
6431
Now, Ms Maffucci weighs 10 stone, is a size 8/10 and is working on toning instead of losing weight .
She said didn’t find it difficult to stick to spiralized food.
6432
Mr Moon, pictured with wife Janice, had paid $4,655 to be buried in a family plot in Chehalis, Washington, according to a lawsuit filed in Lewis County Superior Court .
6433
Organiser Zhang Zhongsham, CEO of pet social media app Smack Talk, said the event was designed not only to give pets and their owners a day to remember, but also to raise awareness of animal rights.
6434
She fronted Brisbane court on Saturday for failing to previously appear on April 7 .
Police prosecutor Sergeant Scott Pearson said Driscoll had allegedly been dealing cannabis to friends.
6435
Peter Collins, 18, a student at Marist College in Poughkeepsie, New York, was found unresponsive at his Rye home in July 2013 and passed away later in a hospital.
6436
Or enough older characters to be interested in.
At the end of last year Linda Marlow joined the cast in a recurring guest role as Sylvie Carter.
6437
Sherwood is still searching for a balance in midfield but he has given Charles N’Zogbia a chance and still has an eye on youth with talent such as Jack Grealish coming through.
6438
It's important to remember that this isn't a news program.
On Friday it issued a statement on his behalf but today said it was not responsible for his public statements.
6439
Second-placed Preston's quest to join Bristol City in the Championship was dented after they were held to a 2-2 draw against Gillingham, who grabbed an equaliser in stoppage time through Leon Legge.
6440
An investigating judge has been put in charge of a routine judicial probe into the incident.
'An investigation into the death is now underway.'
6441
The Animal Health Trust confirmed their vets are now using an incubator to heat the pads.
'We are also standardising the way in which all heat pads are heated at the AHT.'
6442
As a central midfield player in the big matches he just cannot do it.'
'When they don't have the ball he doesn't want to take part and come back towards his own goal.'
6443
Jaclyn previously noted that she hadn't had sex in two years and she hoped it was like 'riding a bike'.
The couple finally agreed on a place to stay while Davina's apartment gets renovated .
6444
A trend in Japan has seen young women tying blue ribbon under their breasts for a better cleavage .
But bizarrely Hestia's signature has taken off with the fans of the show.
6445
Venus is known to have an Earth-like band in its atmosphere about 30 miles (50km) above the surface, where some have said it could be possible to place floating space colonies (shown)
6446
Justin Bettman caught the media's attention a few months ago when he began his 'Set in the Street' project.
That's when Luis popped the question.
6447
Skegness (pictured) is one of the most popular places in Britain to own a holiday home, according to new figures out today .
9. Filey, Yorkshire .
6448
In the past he has made giant Easter eggs but never one that has sized up to his current creation which  measures five feet in width.
6449
The young rider from Kentucky can't stop smiling at the animal's silly antics.
Pony love:
'Horses have a way about them that touches my soul.
6450
The preserved remains were discovered in a cardboard box by street cleaners in north-western Peru.
The remains were taken to the regional Directorate of Culture for examination.
6451
Leeds have themselves some breathing space early in the second half with Joel Moon slipping two tackles against his old club for the supporting Burrow to scamper over and stretch the lead to 22-12.
6452
It is a saddening site of great human and cultural loss following Nepal's devastating earthquake that has killed at least 4,000 people.
6453
'She submitted them and took appropriate amounts of cash from the till.
Mr Devlin said: 'She was arrested by the police and accepted the theft of significant sums of money.
6454
Passengers' hand luggage will be searched before they board at Glasgow Prestwick Airport, said the airline .
6455
Nick Clegg was in Kingston and Surbiton to campaign with fellow Cabinet member, Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, Ed Davey today .
6456
Buchanon said at first he would just write his relatives a check, which he said would 'always get cashed' even as the problems never got fixed.
6457
The state's anti-discrimination commissioner, Robin Banks, also said there was no legal reason why a man could not occupy the role of women's officer.
6458
The fee to find a bride this way, according to this user, costs between $10,000 (£6,500) and $15,000 (£9,800), although others have said they paid as much as $50,000 (£32,700).
6459
She told Simon Wright of the Sunday Mirror that authorities initially said the fall, from a fourth floor balcony at Hotel Jaime 1, was a suicide bid.
6460
The federal government will be investing $4.1 million on a TV drama which is set to broadcast overseas as a way of deterring asylum seekers from entering Australian shores by boat .
6461
Mrs Saunders admitted herself that three investigations into claims made by 25 alleged victims over 25 years were botched  - but decided it was now too late to charge him.
6462
Fortunately the station, which is remotely located about 240km northeast of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory, was vacant at the time of the incident before the culprit managed to escape in the smashed-up car.
6463
The KKK men believed the prisoner was infected with HIV and hepatitis and he bit one of them during a fight, officials said.
The warden there was fired.
6464
The six mothers line up in a row, and can be seen becoming emotional as they wait to see whether their child will be able to recognise them .
6465
It comes after an investigation found that video blogs - known as vlogs – popular with children aged 11 to 17 are being hijacked by 30-second adverts for junk food and online gambling sites.
6466
Last year Attorney-General Jarrod Bleijie said that a parliamentary inquiry had been set up 'to look into current regulation of outdoor advertising in Queensland'.
6467
The discovery led Con Edison to shut down gas service to the building for about 10 days while the building owner made repairs.
6468
Police investigated the incident after receiving complaints from furious web users, but have now passed on the case to the club to investigate.
6469
The American's last opponent was Manny Pacquiao and was knocked down six times during a convincing points win for the Filipino.
6470
The letter was spotted by Twitter user PlattsiePlatts who posted it to her social media account writing: 'So this is the notice I saw today in the window of our local fish and chip shop.
6471
On Saturday - the day which Ms Scott was set to marry her fiance and partner of five years Aaron Leeson-Woolley - a memorial was held to honour the late bride-to-be.
6472
City’s challenge for the title has capitulated in recent weeks and Pellegrini’s men now face a battle to even finish in the top four.
6473
Working together with League Weekly and the fans, one player will be recognised each month with the prestigious accolade via a new online process.
6474
Rasheda Ali revealed that her father respects Pacquiao's boxing capabilities but also admires how he handles himself away from the ring.
6475
Iran has forbidden its citizens from travelling to Saudia Arabia's holy sites over claims two teenaged boys were abused by Saudi airport officials while returning from a pilgrimage.
6476
'A senior member of our team has noticed a slight increase in temperature after returning from Sierra Leone,' the statement read.
6477
Earlier in April, the department fined subsidiary Heald College, alleging the school had shown a pattern of falsifying post-graduation employment data.
6478
The fine weather will be squeezed out from two directions.
Most of the country will see showers at some point over the weekend, but 'it will not be a complete washout'.
6479
Denver-based Founder and CEO of High There! Todd Mitchem, said that the app doesn’t encourage the sale of marijuana but is simply a social network for people who consider it part of their lifestyle.
6480
The researchers explained: 'Our goal is to accelerate genetic and health research using social media.
Facebook cannot access the information you provide to Genes for Good.
6481
The Amish girls were abducted from the stand in rural Oswegatchie, near the Canadian border.
Riendeau has maintained that Howells dominated Vaisey in a sort of master-slave relationship.
6482
He soon discovered his estate manager wife was having an affair with married postman, Nick Gunn, nicknamed 'Tommy' by friends and family, who lived and worked in their village.
6483
4 - Kane spent spells on loan at four different clubs before making his mark at White Hart Lane: Leyton Orient, Millwall, Norwich and Leicester.
'He has big potential,' the Argentinian said.
6484
Finishing above City would represent a major coup for manager Louis van Gaal, especially after the way his team started the season.
6485
The Arsenal legend pretends to go in with his head and says, 'I know you're scared,' to which Redknapp responds: 'May 2, me and you big man.'
6486
Already, that 'clean label' trend has prompted numerous restaurant chains and packaged food makers to reformulate products, even while standing by the safety and quality of their previous recipes.
6487
'I thought it was a bush-league play':  Love, left, has been openly critical of opponent Olynyk following the incident .
The Bulls lead that series 3-1.
6488
Robin Thomas, of Jonesboro, posted a sign on his truck that reads, 'Looking for a date? Would you date a single father?'
6489
Sellers are now wildly over-valuing their houses by around £74,000 – forcing buyers to barter them down, analysis shows .
6490
'The panel considered that as the incident (but not the actual alleged sending-off offence of handball) had been seen by one or more of the officials it was not entitled to consider the matter further.
6491
Seedy:
He claimed ‘arrogant’ Nawaz acts like a ‘spokesman for Islam’ – but visited the club during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
6492
One user wrote: 'For my job, we post eight to ten Instagram pictures a week that are first designed on the computer.
This app takes care of that.'
6493
They questioned the legitimacy of the SNP's plan to try to put Ed Miliband in Downing Street, even if Labour wins fewer seats at the Election.
6494
James may be trailing New Orleans' Anthony Davis and Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook, but has impressed on his return to Cleveland.
6495
The words 'Star Wars', in the movie's distinctive font, adorns the body of the plane .
R2-D2, pictured here with Anakin Skywalker (actor Jake Lloyd) from one of the earlier Star Wars films .
6496
A general view of Natal's Dunas Arena during the World Cup match between Italy and Uruguay last year .
6497
I believe the team play in the correct manner.
'One prominent manager I am not going to name said to me, 'You are being naive, you should get your players to move with the times'.
6498
The revelation follows after Evans threw his weight behind an anti-fluoride campaign where he proudly wore a 'Fluoride Free WA' t-shirt on Facebook to promote the Perth-based lobby group's cause.
6499
Ben's arrival came just a fortnight after the largest lamb born in the UK weighed in at a massive 24lbs in north Wales.
New Zealand is the world's biggest producer of lambs.
6500
Arsenal .
Liverpool .
Arsenal 5/6 .
Liverpool v Arsenal has seen more hat-tricks than any other match in Premier League history (5).
6501
Dangelo Connor, from Brooklyn, New York, filmed himself messing around with a powerful stung gun.
6502
I’ve gone through a lot of ups and downs in my career, so I will keep my feet firmly on the ground.’
I’m going to miss a lot of people here.
6503
But her off-screen life was often as dramatic as the roles she played, with marriages to Mickey Rooney, Artie Shaw and Frank Sinatra.
6504
Previous research has found that other methods could be used to identify stomach cancer, but none looked at detecting pre-cancerous changes.
6505
He said many arrive in Britain on a six-month VISA before heading off on a 'European tour' and police are constantly monitoring CCTV to keep tabs on  gangs and their recruits.
6506
Besides trying to bring down the prices of wireless phone plans, Google is promising subscribers that their Nexus 6 model will automatically connect with the fastest network available.
6507
He was coming to town to speak at an aerospace conference about vulnerabilities in airplane systems and did make a presentation at the event on Thursday without the use of his electronics.
6508
'The undulations at Newmarket won’t be a problem for him and although seven furlongs is a good trip for him at the moment I think that he will stay a mile as long as he relaxes.’
6509
Mr Denniss completed his run in 2013.
Mr Carr ran through Europe, before flying to India and then onto Australia and New Zealand.
6510
A Northamptonshire Police spokesman said the incident had been handed over to Anglian Water from the Highways Authority and they were no longer involved.
6511
Manager Diego Simeone is reason behind Atletico Madrid's recent success, insists Torres .
Simeone speaks to his players ahead of their European showdown with city rivals Real Madrid .
6512
Another focus is Heywood and Middleton, in Greater Manchester, where it narrowly lost a by-election to Labour last October.
6513
Late last year her conviction was overturned because of ineffective counsel, but Nueces County district attorney Mark Skurka was set to try her again .
6514
Her extensive gardens are full of exotic vegetables, fruit and spices — a dream to any aspiring cook.
A fitting tribute to this fragrant and friendly island.
6515
Bishop said Zala loves travelling and acting as team mascot.
Bishop said she will need to take a step back from the world of professional sport once Zala starts school .
6516
Left with deep gashes of up to 10cm, her mother Monique Douglas told Daily Mail Australia that she cries every day for her daughter who has been left so traumatised that she is unable to play outside by herself .
6517
An ALDI spokeswoman said it has always charged credit card surcharges to 'cover the costs associated with the service'.
Mr Godrey said shoppers needed to ask about surcharges before using tap and go.
6518
Scars said to be from the attack on her by a police officer last summer can be seen on her chin.
Ariana said she grabbed the woman's jacket to move her away.
6519
Olivia wore the spray-on leather skirt suit to do the weekly shop.
Navigating the supermarket aisles, she admits she felt like a saucy Stepford Wife .
Doors open.
6520
Qunfei's ID badge from when she worked in a factory, making glass for watches.
It was her rural background that also helped inspire the invention that would help Qunfei make billions.
6521
There are fears that local anaesthetics can be easily absorbed into the blood stream, with unknown consequences.
6522
In the seven matches leading up to the victory against Spain, his team had beaten only Kazakhstan and Latvia in European qualifiers and lost to Italy, the Czech Republic, Iceland and Mexico in qualifiers and friendlies.
6523
The teenager was last seen when she was home for spring break driving near her home in Norfolk, roughly 40 miles from the pond searched Friday, according to 13 News Now.
6524
In an open letter to the Seattle Times, Knox said she was ‘relieved and grateful’ that the court had found her innocent.
6525
There is the potential for an all-Italian Europa League final after Napoli and Fiorentina were kept apart in the semi-final draw.
Napoli vs Dnipro .
6526
The pictures showing her torment follow the iconic image of another Syrian girl who 'broke millions of hearts' after surrendering to a different cameraman Osman Sagirli.
6527
Mila Kunis, seen here with partner Ashton Kutcher in Los Angeles, had being accused of chicken theft despite growing up more than 100miles from Karo.
6528
Judy also said that following her stint on Strictly Come Dancing last year she taught her tennis champion son some basic dance moves.
I mean it was just such a happy family occasion.
6529
His was the latest in a series of ‘apparent’ suicides of a group of businessmen that some believe are linked to the Russian mafia.
6530
He reportedly suffered a sever brain injury during a motorbike accident last year .
Tim posted on social media about how he shoots 'too much'
6531
Duffy died at an Albany hospital November 17, two days after drinking large amounts of alcohol with other frat pledges.
6532
According to the video maker there were around 30 birds in the front room when the group came home.
6533
But when she went to retrieve the stroller the following morning, it had reportedly disappeared.
They did not say why the boy uses the wheelchair, citing privacy concerns.
6534
Mayweather is a fantastic fighter who always finds a way to win so he will be ready for this fight.'
'But I think the win will go to Mayweather.'
6535
The cheese trolley was one of the biggest I'd seen.
Le Manoir boasts  stunning grounds, luxury accommodation and Blanc's two Michelin-starred restaraunt .
6536
'He's been an important player for the club this season, both before and after I came to the club, and I would like to thank him for his efforts during his time on loan here, and also Liverpool for allowing him to come.'
6537
The nocturnal shopping sprees are likely down to the 86 per cent of those surveyed who admit to turning to online retailers to purchase items that they are too embarrassed to buy in stores.
6538
Tim Sherwood has branded Aston Villa’s stars ‘icing on the cake players’ — urging them to toughen up before they host Queens Park Rangers on Tuesday night.
6539
Vincent Stanford, 24, has been charged with the murder of Ms Scott, who was last seen at Leeton High School on Easter Sunday .
6540
The woman was reportedly invited on to the base to attend a party linked to the ice hockey tournament.
Last night his wife said she had not spoken to him since his arrest.
6541
Rooney's overall wealth is up £12million to £72million, and the Manchester United and England skipper remains on course to join David Beckham as the only British footballer to amass a fortune of more than £100million.
6542
As a senator and presidential candidate, Obama did describe the killings of Armenians as genocide.
The outcome in terms of mass death is not now widely disputed.
6543
The unidentified woman's conversation with a dispatcher was revealed by ABC News.
Loveland police said that Estes Park officers responded and got the woman out, after finding her car keys.
6544
It looked serious but we must wait for what happens at the hospital.’
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce claimed that the incident was ‘accidental’, saying: ‘It was innocuous.
6545
She said SNP MPs would seek to amend an EU referendum Bill to insist on a 'double majority' - meaning that unless England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland each vote to leave the EU, the UK would remain a member state.
6546
But after close friends last week cast doubt on these claims, Ms Gibson herself admitted in an interview with The Australian that an announcement last year that her cancer had spread to her liver, spleen, blood and uterus was a 'misdiagnosis'.
6547
Zimbabwe's limited overs captain Elton Chigumbura could lead his side in a series in Pakistan .
Pakistan haven't played a Test nation since the attacks on Sri Lanka's bus in March 2009 .
6548
He looks a little dazed and confused as he regains balance.
But footage shows his adventuring took a turn for the worse with him plunging headfirst into one bag and struggling to get free .
6549
South Gate Police Chief Randy Davis has confirmed to NBC4 that the man is with the U.S. Marshals.
The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is also investigating the video.
6550
'I’ve never tried drugs, but I empathize with those addicted to the needle, or the pipe,' he wrote.
He made dietary changes too, including swapping burgers for lean rotisserie chicken.
6551
Alonso is booked for pulling back Kagawa's shirt.
Muller and Lewandowski are linking up well but they are missing the pace and creativity of Robben and Ribery.
6552
Pret is now in good company with its lead competitor, Starbucks, who in February announced the launch of its yet-to-materialize dinner menu.
6553
Following the incident, married father Hutchinson went to police and told officers: 'I've hit someone.
He added that he thought he had 'just knocked him out'.
6554
You can't just go making up policies.'
Love said that though she will skip her own prom, she hopes that she can make a difference for younger students.
6555
An American-Egyptian citizen was jailed for life as an Egyptian judge handed down harsh punishments to now outlawed Muslim group.
6556
But he said: 'I don't understand why it is any different from putting a rainbow-coloured display in a shop window or Christmas lights up at Christmas.
6557
The clothes worn during the robberies are thought to be quickly discarded by the robbers, who have also used a very common car as a getaway vehicle .
6558
This week, in an interview with the Australian Women's Weekly, Gibson admitted she never had cancer.
She needs now to get help and move through this,' she said on air.
6559
Investigators concluded that the crash was a one-car collision that was caused by poor road conditions.
Instead, she was laid to rest in her dream gown .
6560
Karstein Erstad took this photograph of the worms he discovered in the snow on Sunday .
He said he found reports of the same strange phenomenon taking place in Sweden in the 1920s.
6561
Tiger Woods says the Par-3 Contest is all about 'having fun, enjoying it and not winning'.
And Woods explained how they got involved in the tournament.
6562
An elderly couple died of carbon monoxide poisoning after lighting a barbecue in their home to keep warm during a power cut, an inquest heard.
They were happy and in love after 53 years of marriage.'
6563
While some gene association studies on noise-induced hearing loss in people have been conducted in the past, all were very small and their results unreplicated.
6564
Margaret Tyler, 71, has amassed a vast collection of royal memorabilia .
It takes a lot of work [to maintain] but it's a labour of love.'
6565
Absolutely.
She described the pain of having to tell their daughter Sydney that Richard had died .
'I know if a passenger is in distress...
6566
The UKIP leader said the pain meant he was not 'firing on all cylinders' during the early weeks of the election campaign, but insists he is now 'back on form'.
He told BBC News: 'I've not been doing physio.
6567
Brett Anthony O'Connor's lawyer, Phillip Mulherin, applied for a suppression order in the Tweed Heads Local Court on Monday.
6568
Manager: Dieter Hecking .
Benaglio played the ball out to Josuha Guilavogui, who turned and passed the ball straight to Jose Callejon.
6569
Last year, Hawking revised his theory by declaring that black holes were in fact 'grey'.
How exactly it's possible to recover information from a black hole has remained a topic of debate.
6570
Outraged supporters of Veronica Bolina (pictured) have set up campaign groups on the internet demanding the right for LGBT people to be treated fairly .
6571
Detectives arrested the baby's parents on suspicion of murder yesterday.
'I would see the family playing in the garden.
The dad worked on cars in the front garden.
6572
Risks:
Struggle:
The 42-year-old said solo climbing is about risk assessing, calculating and fine tuning in order to 'minimise the inevitable'
6573
Firing guns in the air is a traditional way of celebrating special occasions in some parts of Saudi Arabia and despite government efforts to stop it, the dangerous practice lingers on.
6574
Almost 1,500 French nationals are currently fighting in Syria and Iraq - making up a staggering 47 per cent of the European fighters currently waging jihad in the region.
6575
Virgin has said that eligible passengers would be getting EU compensation of €600 (circa £434) plus out-of-pocket expenses, but some are demanding much more.
6576
Dr Jean Emberlin, a leading pollen expert, told MailOnline that a 33 per cent rise in the number of people struck by hayfever this year could occur, 'depending on weather conditions'.
6577
Hopefully he will make his comeback in the summer.
His promoter Frank Warren has confirmed that Chisora has been back in the gym for the past month .
6578
A van carrying 12 people from South Carolina for a heavy metal show in Atlanta careened off the road Monday morning, killing three and injuring eight .
6579
Other sharp price hikes to be introduced include an off-peak first-class single from Crewe to Northampton on London Midlands, which will rise from £30 to £37, according to trainsplit.com - a website that provides passengers with cheaper ticket options.
6580
Hull City are keen on signing Leeds United midfielder Alex Mowatt.
Mowatt graduated from Leeds' academy in 2013 and has since gone on to star for the first-team this term .
6581
Mr Nisar, 55, said: 'He nearly had a heart attack, he was really worried!
'Mobile phones are the most common thing left behind but most of them now can be traced anyway.
6582
Unafraid to hype its importance before kick-off, he was treating it as such once the whistle blew.
In the 24th he hurried his players to take a free-kick.
6583
Alison, 43, from Gloucestershire, has since had to go under the knife a further 12 times but is still living with the damage that ensued following a breast augmentation operation six years ago.
6584
Sure enough, the first try came in the 13th minute, as Fritz Lee blasted clear from a lineout on the right and he released Wesley Fofana.
6585
Robin van Persie earned a draw for Manchester United with a stoppage time equaliser in October .
Mourinho hinted that Loic Remy should return from a calf injury against Manchester United .
6586
Cook has slightly altered his batting stance after working with Graham Gooch in his enforced off-season .
The day before a Test the captain should be worrying about what’s important to him.
6587
'Back in the day he was a member until the group was banned.
Neighbours said today that police had broken down the door on Thursday night to enter the family's home .
6588
But he became angry when BBC reporter Tim Willcox pointed out that his own firm had advertised for staff on a zero-hours basis.
THE PLUS SIZED BLOGGER .
6589
Lane, 22, from Melbourne, was jogging along a street in the rural southern Oklahoma city of Duncan in August, 2013, when he was shot in the back with a .22 calibre handgun.
6590
Following complaints from the RPI’s Muslim Students’ Association a number of students have said the postponement was an act of censorship and an attack on free speech, Fox News reported.
6591
Another photo of Saeed and his brother show them in the spring of 2014 when Saeed later admitted he shot up a Syrian prison.
Terror tourism:
6592
Gareth Barry has advised his Everton team-mate Ross Barkley against moving to Manchester City at this young stage of his career.
6593
Most had believed Johnson would be dispatched quickly.
In 1912, one opponent, 'Fireman' Jim Flynn, was disqualified for repeatedly trying to headbutt Johnson.
6594
Police are searching for a man charged with killing his wife at the Dunkin' Donuts in Maryland where they both worked.
6595
On the highway there were also massive delays.
The truck driver was identified as a 57-year-old Woburn man and the car driver was a 42-year-old Attleboro man.
6596
The hard-fought contest erupted 15 minutes from time with referee Richard Silverwood sin-binning Hauraki and Bateman after a melee.
6597
Barca lead on 75 points after they squandered a 2-0 lead and drew 2-2 at fifth-placed Sevilla on Saturday, two ahead of second-placed Real Madrid, 3-0 winners at home to Eibar.
6598
Francis Coquelin (right) has played a vital role in Arsenal's late push for the Premier League title .
He was unlucky for the first yellow.’
6599
The pair had a well-publicised falling out following Rooney's departure from Goodison Park in 2004, but Moyes fought hard to retain the United forward's services at Old Trafford.
6600
Argentina has branded British attempts to explore the seas around the Falklands Islands for oil ‘illegitimate’ and says it will mount a legal challenge – but has ruled out another conflict.
6601
Scott Shearer sprays his team-mates in Champagne as they celebrate their victory and promotion .
‘It has been a great season and the lads have handled it really well.
6602
The New York Times claimed that NBC executives were informed of the suspicions about the kidnappers' identities during and after Mr Engel was taken.
6603
However, Ms Boudreau says her son's interested in the religion took a turn in 2011 when he started growing his beard out and distancing himself from the family .
6604
It wasn't until the next day that Truong realized he was harboring an abducted child when he read an Amber Alert on online.
It's just crazy.'
6605
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon  claimed Ed Miliband is 'so desperate' for power he is willing to weaken UK defences to win support from SNP .
'Only one party is standing up to Trident across the UK.
6606
During his mission, Mr Grayson found that most of the helicopters had been blown up in target practice or turned into museum pieces.
Mr Grayson's journey took him all around the UK.
6607
Russian Maria Sharapova has pulled out of this weekend's Fed Cup semi-final with a leg inury .
The best-of-five series will be played outdoors on red clay at the Circolo Tennis Brindisi.
6608
City fans chanted Mancini's name but they lost the final and he was dismissed the following week.
The only one of the managers who left on his own terms.
6609
The last goal he scored — against Aston Villa — came when he was playing in midfield.'
In Stretford, Rooney has the opportunity to ease United clear of Manuel Pellegrini's team.
6610
Want to look like Kim Kardashian?
Now you can, because the flawless star has revealed the products that give her that envy-inducing glow .
6611
Merson initially angered Townsend for writing in his Sky Sports column that 'if Andros Townsend can get in (the England team) then it opens it up to anybody.'
6612
, Benitez also admitted to trying to sign Ivan Perisic and Luiz Gustavo before their January departures to Wolfsburg from Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich respectively.
6613
Quye's involvement was made 'even worse' as he had told Mr Buchel's 16-year-old daughter, who cannot be named, the night before that he would care for her inebriated father, the judge said.
6614
Another holidaymaker who owns a van at the site said: 'I think they were on holiday here.
'Coastguard Rescue Teams training nearby were able to get on scene within ten minutes.
6615
Former Hoops striker Chris Sutton (pictured in 2005) has called for more accountability for officials .
'There's not a conspiracy theory or anything like that,' he insisted.
6616
In Germany, private security guards were also blamed for ignoring an alarm which went off in the Volksbank's vaults two days before the crime was discovered.
6617
She is also listed as a manager of Macedo Dental Lab in Longwood, Florida whose number was disconnected.
They said that Dierks had been treating them for eight years .
6618
Authorities are also asking for help tracking down five people who were in the area at about 7.30pm as they have witnessed the argument that ultimately escalated.
6619
Mike and Lucia bought the Dartford property at auction for £215,000 and gave themselves a budget of just £10,000 with an original plan to replace the windows and doors.
6620
Broner throws an uppercut at John Molina Jnr during their fight at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in March .
40 million, he should take it,' 50 Cent told TMZ.
6621
Tiffanie DiDonato, from Swansboro, North Carolina, was born with diastrophic dysplasia and underwent numerous limb-lengthening surgeries as a child so she would grow to be 4'10 tall, instead of her previous height of 3'8, which is how tall her son Titan currently is.
6622
Jesse getting arrested for smoking weed at Sydney Town Hall on Monday .
Jesse lit up a joint on Monday as part of the 420 campaign which happens every year on April 20 at 4.20pm .
6623
While authorities in the southern Arizona town officially identified the victims, a Go Fund Me page was set up for the parents, Mark and Alexis Keslar.
6624
They also apologized for false rumors that 'served to shame and humiliate her'.
Anger:
She then pleaded with the boys to delete the photos.
6625
I don’t like watching people getting their hair cut and I hate hairdressers.
My only rule is that the products are not tested on animals.
6626
Floyd Mayweather Jnr (left) insists on eating organic food before his fight, although there are exceptions .
'And Top Ramen (dried noodle packets).
6627
England will send an Under 20 team to the Toulon Tournament this summer following the successful experiment last year.
The tournament runs from May 27 to June 7.
6628
Here, the runway of the future airport is visible.
As well as there being several ship wrecks to explore, the marine life is another major draw for snorkellers and divers alike .
6629
Mr Snowden may have been told not to speak out on Russian surveillance but continue attacking America in order to save himself from jail in the US, Andrei Soldatov said.
6630
The youngster's grandmother added that the plea deal means her grandson will not have to go through the psychological trauma of a trial, saying: 'He just needs to learn to trust again.'
After his arrest, Frolander was treated at hospital before being taken to the closest police station.
Officers appeared to understand the father's reaction.
6631
City boss Manuel Pellegrini is facing pressure to deliver success at the heavy spending club .
6632
Tickets for the highly-anticipated encounter sold out within 60 seconds on Thursday evening.
6633
Video footage shows a white ball being rolled down a positioned cue.
And for those wanting to replicate the stunt, there is a slow motion version to show the precise angles involved.
6634
The Makayabella was simultaneously reported to be floundering in the Atlantic, leading Irish and UK authorities to suspect that the Sea Breeze was attempting to rendezvous with the yacht.
6635
Clinton claimed on Wednesday that all of her grandparents 'came over' from other countries, but in fact only one was born outside the US .
6636
His apology came nearly four years after bedding her for the last time.
Rhodri (left) and brother Ryan (right) have ended their four-year feud over the affair .
6637
Among the ridiculous activities that can bring you press and publicity, you can also choose to engage in embarrassing photo shoots (pictured)
6638
'We go to the lunch club every week on our scooters and nothing like this has ever happened before.
We will carry on as normal though, he hasn't put us off.'
6639
Scientists are still investigating what caused the whales to become stranded on the beaches of Hokota city .
6640
Tank, who enjoys eating snow and watching turtles, will now serve as mascot of this year's Drake Relays .
Tank received top honors as well as a crown and cape.
6641
According to LiveScience, Professor Hillis said that in the general population, most people should be able to identify 90 per cent of sarcastic comments.
6642
Charlotte is in the catchment area but the school is oversubscribed, so children who also live in the area but go to the correct feeder school were given a place above her.
6643
An Egyptian court has sentenced a popular Armenian belly dancer to six months in prison for 'insulting the Egyptian flag' after she wore a tight dress in its red, white and black color scheme.
6644
The news comes just one day after Sportsmail revealed massive price hikes at Manchester City.
'Today's announcement proves that we have kept our promise.'
6645
Hernandez was a star high school player from a bad neighborhood in Bristol, Connecticut.
In 2008, he was suspended from the first game of the year for testing positive for marijuana.
6646
He later snapped a photo of the stranger's friendly note to post to Facebook, where it has now gone viral.
Derek snapped a photo of the note for Facebook and it has since gone viral.
6647
Manuel Pellegrini could be worried about his position at Manchester City after losing against their fierce rivals .
Look at his record before he arrived in England.
6648
Nicholas has made quite a name for himself in Houston, where he regularly performs at sports games.
Maybe we'll soon be seeing the performer at NFL games too.
6649
There’s no cup run, I just don’t get it.
Tottenham striker Harry Kane at full stretch with of Spurs is chased down by Newcastle captain Fabricio Coloccini .
6650
The 34-year-old follows in the footsteps of a string of maître chefs who have headed the kitchen since its opening in the Strand, London in 1889.
6651
‘When you’re out for that length of time it maybe takes you the same amount of time to get back again.
Rodgers added: ‘Every player is different.
6652
It is not believed to be related to the 7.8magnitude earthquake that struck the Kathmandu Valley on Saturday, which so far has claimed more than 4,000 lives.
6653
Yesterday, police investigating the nurse's disappearance said they were following a 'definite line of enquiry'.
She previously worked as a nurse in Essex.
6654
Defender Martin Skrtel’s future is also unclear as he is yet to agree a new contract with Wolfsburg planning a move for him.
6655
This week helicopter cameras captured police beating Francis Pusok at least 80 times after they had already tasered him.
6656
Yzeiraj was fired from Ultimate Dental Care of Riverdale, New York (pictured) after the company found out she was illegally performing as a dentist from late 2012 to summer 2013 .
6657
Argentine striker Ignacio Piatti had put the Impact ahead when he converted Andres Romero's ball in early in the first half.
  Aston Villa .
6658
McCoy is unnerved by the thought of staying too long, of not going out a winner .
The sheer number of times he took a race on sets him apart.
6659
Tesco has said its vegetables undergo an 'extensive assessment and review process' before they reach supermarket shelves .
6660
Scott was behind $18,000 in his child support payments and family members have said he may have run because he was worried about going to jail.
Scott was laid to rest last weekend.
6661
The English clubs simply can’t compete when the leading Top 14 sides play to their potential, due to the disparity in budgets.
6662
The centipede tries to fight back, wrapping itself around the ant but the bid for freedom is ultimately hopeless .
6663
A proposed ban on alcohol in Indonesia could deter Australians from holidaying in Bali .
He said the proposal had 'horrified' authorities in Bali.
6664
Pellegrini reported nothing other than 'small problems' when asked about any injury concerns at his pre-match press conference.
6665
Two people were treated at the scene by paramedics following the crash in Goodge Street this morning.
A tow truck was needed for the Mercedes and second London bus, according to Mr Beltran .
6666
His claim follows a class action in the US, which saw Audi agree to fix 126,000 A4s, A5s and Q5 models with the oil problem.
6667
Doctors at Imperial College London came to the conclusion after taking a new look at Caesar's symptoms described in Greek and Roman documents .
6668
You will toast him in whatever it is that you spongy egalitarians use for toasts — some form of low-calorie herbal infusion, perhaps — and you may even allow yourselves a small ‘ahhh’ of sentimentalism.
6669
And scientists in California have warned that the region may be experiencing a century-long 'mega-drought'.
The 'blob' is also having an effect on marine life.
6670
The court heard he regularly used sex phone lines but hid it from his long-term partner.
His young child was asleep in the room next door while he carried out the harrowing crimes.
6671
Slain:
Family troubles:
When asked about the blood stains on his clothes and shoes, the 10-year-old blamed it on a nosebleed.
6672
Radamel Falcao's (right) role at Manchester United has been reduced to that of substitute .
Eden Hazard (right) has arguably been the Blues most influential player in the title chase .
6673
While authorities in the southern Arizona town have not yet officially identified the victims, a Go Fund Me page set up this weekend named them and their parents, Mark and Alexis Keslar.
6674
According to another mugshot found online, Carrion-Moore, was arrested in February in Palm Beach County and charged with aggravated battery and resisting an officer without violence.
6675
Cyber-security experts say thieves may try to use patients' personal information to fraudulently obtain medical services (file photo)
6676
Martha was successfully pulled on to the lifeboat after being found cold and shivering  half a mile out to sea .
6677
'We know the enormity of the task ahead but you can only plan and prepare as best you can and what happens happens.
We're not happy with late goals.
6678
They were originally fined £120 for the unauthorised absence from Sweyne Park School in Rayleigh, Essex, after being convicted in November 2014 of failing to ensure their child regularly attended school.
6679
Mohamed Diame will make his long-awaited return for Hull when the Tigers travel to Swansea on Saturday.
'He's okay but we have to careful with him, though we also only have eight games left.
6680
Her response, written on stationery with an image of the mosque at the top, said that she hopes he can make peace with God.
No one was injured in the fire.
6681
'Both Driver and Moran ... told the (confidential informant) that they wanted (the inmate) "six feet under,"' the FBI's affidavit said.
6682
You can even freeze them in ice cube trays with a drizzle of water.
When cooled, transfer them to freezer bags.
Decant the slices into a blender or food processor and whizz.
6683
The forward was joined by midfielder Fabian Delph (left) who is fresh from international duty with England .
‘It’s not a concern, I just have to do my job.
6684
‘It hasn’t sunk it yet.
Barnes, in quite colourful language, also told Sportsmail that both he and Conlan had to overcome upset stomachs to compete.
6685
To clarify her point, Sparkman sent McHenry a link to the definition of 'sexualization'.
She said she  posted this selfie as an example of female empowerment .
6686
Subs not used: Walton, Hughes, Forster-Caskey, O’Grady.
Bournemouth's Yann Kermorgant tussles with Joe Bennett during the first half at AMEX Stadium .
6687
'Bruce Reid is not the worst batsman there is at international level but those who are worse would not need to hire the Myer Music Bowl to hold a convention.'
6688
This image shows a bent iPhone 6S .
The material would make the next iPhone 60 per cent harder than the iPhone 6, Taiwan-based Economic Daily News reported.
6689
However, the court heard that after the call was cut off, Kerry-Ann told military police in Germany, who then contacted officers in Nottingham.
6690
The AA staff member then allegedly demanded to see a 'fit to fly' certificate before sending the family away and cancelling their tickets.
6691
The trio's choreography was spot on throughout their performance .
'They did a really shockingly good job,' Chrissy told Matt of Willie and Hoda's performances.
6692
That's how it's been since I was eight years old.'
Mercedes star Lewis Hamilton insists that he will do his talking 'on the track' ahead of the race in Bahrain .
6693
Once he's put an item in the machine, Baron patiently waits for another to be rinsed by his owner.
Hard at work: He then gets back up on his back legs to collect his next load .
6694
Holcomb says she was fired less than two days after the incident.
They also said it wasn't the first time Holcomb hadn't cleared the till.
6695
'Our students are expected to wear black leather lace-up shoes.
'We have done everything to assist the family concerned, including offering the student a pair of appropriate shoes,' he said.
6696
Another January drone strike killed Ahmed Farouq, the operations leader for Al-Qaida in Pakistan, as well as an American hostage and an Italian hostage.
6697
Marvel heroes like Spider Man weren't allowed .
Other participating cities included Birmingham, Cardiff, Kaohsiung, London, Madrid, Manila and Mexico City .
6698
Yet such criminals are easy to spot.
Otherwise, you can come back from Tenerife and your luggage will have been replaced on the carousel with concrete blocks.
6699
Essig was cagey about where he got the brownie, but said he needed to 'continue his research' about the pot-laced edibles .
6700
According to the report, household names like CBS, General Electric and Mattel all successfully manipulated the U.S. tax code to avoid paying taxes on their massive profits.
6701
The moves had the direct effect of upsetting gay and lesbian individuals, however, and incited massive protests.
 A new version of Arkansas' law is now making its way through the statehouse.
6702
Hilarious stunt:
Classroom experiment:
Roman (pictured) was secretly completing a project, in which he had to violate a societal norm .
6703
Rafael Sobis doubled Tigres' lead in the 83rd minute before substitute Esqueda Tirado added gloss to the scoreline four minutes later, scoring almost immediately after coming off the bench.
6704
The study found that Hedione creates 'sex-specific activation patterns' in the tissue found in the nasal cavity which connects to the brain, according to a report in the Telegraph.
6705
Current solutions are either ineffective because they fail to numb the skin adequately, or take too long, the researchers said.
6706
James Hook claims it will be 'a bonus' if Wales come calling for his services ahead of this year's World Cup.
'I am improving game on game.
6707
Norwich, Leicester, Newcastle and Stoke have watched Toner, one of Villa’s most promising young players who captains their Under-21 team aged just 18.
6708
Ri Sol-ju here is seen wearing a wedding ring and her husband Kim Jong-un an expensive watch.
 Last week he appeared to be wearing a bandage on the same wrist after sustaining an injury.
6709
He said: 'I'm over the moon to be coming north.
Alasdair Dickinson is obviously an exceptional player and I'm keen to look at what he does and learn from him.'
6710
Provo Police Chief John King said Friday that there is no evidence Salgado was kidnapped, but he says they are very worried because she hasn't made contact with anybody for longer than a week .
6711
'We've slipped back a bit since then, there are 30 days to go and I think the issues Ukip is campaigning on are back in play.'
6712
Scientists will be examining whether a plant’s ability to work out which way it is growing - the gravity sensor - can form in the absence of gravity.
6713
More than 22,000 foreign fighters are now believed to have joined Islamic State from around 100 countries.
Several schoolchildren have already gone to Syria.
6714
Williams told New Scientist that the fossil of a gelada baboon thoracic vertebra must have somehow been mixed up with Lucy's remains.
6715
It is not known whether it was the same coyote that was spotted in Manhattan's riverside park on Wednesday.
Everytime they got close, the animal ran away .
6716
The Hurricane Committee also backed Mexico's request to retire the name Odile because of the storm (above)
She added that this was not the case with Isis.
6717
In Padstow, where children are an integral part of the festival, the school closes so pupils can take part in the early-morning dances.
6718
The  new 'I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!' Maze at Thorpe Park Resort is now open to the public .
Actors Angela Griffin and Tamzin Outhwaite visited the new attraction .
6719
'Our Planet' will focus on the Earth's last wilderness areas and the animals living there, the project's British producers said Wednesday.
6720
Customers can pick from one of the four picnic options on offer and order online.
The Tuileries gardens near the Louvre is one of Paris' perfect picnic spots in the spring time .
6721
The couple said they would not change their lives too drastically despite the windfall, describing themselves as 'simple people'.
6722
They are not going to employ me.’
She says she has applied for more than 40 jobs but has had no success because of her 18 tattoos .
Changing shape:
6723
Others said that Mr Mackay had posted links to his girlfriend’s Facebook page before his death in which she was pictured with another man.
6724
Mr Bird has fathered three children and was previously expected to pay $1,300 a month in child support.
6725
Courtois (centre) has struggled in previous weeks and his error led to a  goal for Hull on March 22 .
I helped the team with two good saves against QPR and I'm happy.
6726
'It also forced the closure of the nearby Mogao Grottoes.'
The colour-coded weather warning system designated the sandstorm blue in an attempt to forewarn residents .
6727
Police officers who responded to the scene found Sandra Mathis trying to revive her mortally wounded husband, but to no avail, according to the station CBS8.
6728
He says he was terrified by this incident.'
He admitted grabbing the victim through the car window and screaming at him, but said he didn't punch him.
6729
And using images collected by the spacecraft, Nasa has unveiled an interactive tool that lets you explore this world.
6730
According to the official citation, the 1 Para hero showed 'complete disregard for his own safety' as the force came under attack from around 20 insurgents armed with machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades in Helmand province.
6731
Rought:
Symbol:
Permanent vacation
Mirreyes could be important for business and politics in the future because cash attracts friends .
Ouch:
6732
The work meant a main road in Sheffield was closed off.
The section of the building was later demolished .
Rizwan also admitted breaching a prohibition notice.
6733
Sarah Hulbert, of Auburn, wrote in her complaint that she was treated differently from her male co-workers during her time as an executive assistant at Bates College in Lewiston and was fired for having 'no pizzazz.'
6734
I take it with pride.
Watson admitted he had been involved in 'some mess ups' on Tour but said he did not dislike any of his professional peers.
6735
TEPCO plans to send in a different, amphibious robot next year for further investigation of the three reactors that suffered meltdowns.
6736
Gigi, centre, is best friends with fellow supermodels Cara Delevingne, left, and Kendall, right .
Missguided Brigitte ripped jeans .
6737
Lee told the television station 'Rama was a really special elephant.
Elephant curator Bob Lee (right) has said zoo officials 'made the best decision they could at the time'
6738
Miss Hughes, who doesn’t drink because of acid reflux condition had blood pouring down her face before she was taken by ambulance to hospital.
6739
Toure was criticised by Sky Sports' Gary Neville and Graeme Souness after City's loss at Manchester United .
6740
The Augmented Vision goggles (pictured) will go on show at the Auto Shanghai show and generate ‘screens’ showing information that only the wearer can see .
6741
Millions of pounds were wiped off the value of leading housebuilders today after Labour announced a raft of new policies on housing.
6742
Subs not used:  Spurr,   Lenihan, Steele, Evans .
Then, in the 80th minute, Bellusci allowed Spearing time and room to drill in the third.
6743
Hull forced an error when Hohaia was adjudged to have knocked on a high Pryce kick.
Rankin goaled and to compound Saints' misery the restart kick went out on the full.
6744
Miss Roberts has also been branded ‘despicable’ by model agency owner Jean Luc Brunel who said that he is considering legal action of his own.
6745
He will appear before the Perth Children’s Court on May 6.
'Anyone who is caught setting off flares within nib Stadium will immediately receive a lengthy ban,' he said.
6746
One viewer, @AidanTurner_Fan, remarked that she would rather see her favourite star with a full rug: 'Asked to shave his chest hair off?!!
6747
During that time, he had two public relapses, including one before the 2012 season.
He claimed that Hamilton's contract said the deal could be terminated if he relapsed.
6748
The video features an interview with Rory McIlroy as a youngster before he became a golfing superstar .
'But, it's just another golf tournament.
6749
But Ms Sturgeon insists that after polling day, Labour will be forced to do as she says.
A briefing by Lord Mandelson's company suggests the SNP will be the real winners of the election .
6750
The video begins with the dog rather erratically jumping onto the basket and forcing in onto its base .
The puppy begins chewing the sides of the basket while looking up at the video maker .
6751
'Passage of this legislation raises serious concerns that Malaysia will return to practices of the past when government agents frequently used fear of indefinite detention to intimidate and silence outspoken critics.'
6752
It emerged last week that he will appear on stage with his former Top Gear colleagues, Richard Hammond and James May, later this year to fulfil a series of shows planned before he left the BBC.
6753
Klopp is on the radar of a number of top clubs after announcing that he will leave Dortmund at the end of the season.
6754
A Turkish teenager returned home from work to find his entire family were dead from suspected food poisoning.
Kemal is now receiving counselling for the tragedy .
6755
Manchester United striker Radamel Falcao believes Sergio Aguero is his side's biggest threat on Sunday .
The atmosphere will be phenomenal,' he said.
6756
Further, she says her son - AJ's stepfather Wesley Hadsell - was arrested unjustly as he took it upon himself to investigate the crime by breaking into a Norfolk area home .
6757
Protest flight:
Doug Hughes' close friend Mike Shanahan, said today that the Hughes is not a terrorist and did not mean any harm with his protest.
6758
The famed Egyptian beauty famously bathed in donkey-milk baths.
Bleach blonde hair was coveted in Ancient Greece and women doused themselves in vinegar to get the look.
6759
While the distribution of desert fairy circles may look random, as if the landscape is marked with freckles, the pattern closely matches the distribution pattern of skin cells.
6760
She said when she told students the former Black Panther was ill, they had asked to write to him in prison.
The letters caused many to criticize the actions of the teacher.
6761
Cards and messages were also left, with people expressing their grief.
Her family, who travelled to Scotland on Tuesday, have said they are 'absolutely heartbroken'.
6762
The MGM Grand is ready to host the richest fight in boxing history as Las Vegas prepares for the fight .
6763
Clark named the pinto-bean-sized, teardrop-shaped gem a 'hallelujah diamond' because she spotted the gem shortly after praying that she would find something .
6764
This week, a 21-year-old university student died after taking a lethal dose of diet pills.
There have been a number of fatalities in the UK caused by DNP.
6765
'I think some foreign media are more sensitive about the topic compared to local media.
On Twitter, Hamilton was described as a 'bully' and 'disgusting'.
6766
The former Obama administration official endorsed gay marriage in 2013 after she left the State Department, saying she 'was fully in support of gay marriage and that it is now continuing to proceed state-by-state.'
6767
A man vying to become the next Kentucky governor has legally changed his name to Gatewood Galbraith after a late local celebrity who bid five times for the title but never won enough votes.
6768
The former SNP leader, who is bidding to return to Westminster, said the Labour leader would find it difficult to avoid doing a deal with the Scottish nationalists in the event of  hung parliament.
6769
Music lovers paid nearly £40 to see the singer perform in Canterbury last night - only to wait for more than three hours for him to arrive.
6770
'A member of the public took a picture of the thief brazenly walking away from the scene with his dog.
6771
Bastian Schweinsteiger suffered an ankle injury during Bayern Munich's weekend win over Dortmund .
Ribery, on his way back from an ankle injury, also missed training on Monday.
6772
'If he comes, welcome.
'The only thing I know is that he told me he's not coming to Chelsea, for sure - and he told me that personally, so, I'm calm.'
6773
Researchers say the study has led to the launch of human trials to test the efficacy of the drug in Alzheimer's patients.
It reports that the financial cost of dementia to the UK is £26billion a year.
6774
Samsung's version is available from £169 in the UK and $199 in the US, buy it is tied to Samsung phones .
The colours seen are your brain’s “best guess.”’
6775
Ledger, audiences flocked to see star Paul Walker in one of his . final roles.
1. Furious 7, $143.6m .
Globally, the Disney release is closing in on $400 million.
6776
Andy Murray is delighted after some Snooker with friends Ross Hutchins (left) and Jamie Delgado (centre)
Preparations are well underway at the Cathedral in Dunblane for the Scot's big day .
6777
And his club may need his leadership now.
That was a massive achievement but now we expect it of ourselves.
Only in one area will Hart not be emulating Buffon.
6778
Checking out his big brown barnet back in 1985, we'd say it's a good thing Clooney has been embracing the silver look since he was 33.
6779
EasyJet has now apologised to Mrs Bacon and said it will be refunding the additional cost for switching her flights.
6780
'Reading made us work for it but we got through in the end.
Sanchez turns away in celebration as Reading's players lay crumpled on the ground after conceding .
6781
Gulliver admits that since Antin has come on board the brand has sky rocketed from being a 'small solely-owned start up' to a complete lifestyle brand that's reaching a mass market across Australia, the US, UK, Norway and Israel.
6782
He was so amazing at interacting with his students.'
Phil played football for Haltemprice in the East Riding County League and a minute's silence will be held at the next game.
6783
It was here, of course, that Stokes broke his wrist punching a locker after being dismissed last year and that will be a reminder to him of the need to channel his aggression in the right way now he is back in the England team.
6784
If he becomes eligible for Davis Cup ties then those guys are going to have to prove themselves.
‘He’s a good player but so are James and Kyle, and Liam has improved.
6785
The father said he hopes to photograph Wil 'flying' in other destinations to raise more awareness.
Wil checks himself out in the mirror first thing in the morning .
6786
The Manchester City shot stopper, who is 10 years younger than Buffon, revealed his delight at receiving his 50th cap at the Juventus Stadium.
6787
She said she believed, after the first attack, that it would never happen again.
'It wasn't OK for people to say I got what I deserved when they had no idea what my struggle was.'
6788
Mr Farage said he would also want the Tories to match his commitment to Nato's target of spending 2 per cent of national income on defence.
6789
We apologise unreservedly to those front runners.
AndKim Kelly replied: 'Totally agree and never got to do a 5k as they were 45mins behind schedule :(((.'
6790
Hernandez's fiancee and two-year-old daughter live there.
August 30, 2008 - Hernandez suspended for one game after testing positive for smoking marijuana .
6791
Currently the World Meteorological Society records the warmest temperature on the continent as being at Vanda Station on the opposite side Antarctica on 1 May 1974 when temperatures reached 15°C (59°F).
6792
Cheltenham were beaten by Northampton in their last game and have two games left to try and stay up .
'You also need team-mates you can rely on.
6793
The FCC would send the deal to a judge if it didn't believe it serves the public interest.
'It's a dead end for Comcast,' said Rob McDowell, a former FCC commissioner.
6794
'In a way the (Palace) board have been lucky because even if I have great success here I won't be looking to jump away.'
6795
Former boxer Benn joins in a playful pads session in the ring with Hatton at his Manchester gym .
Hatton is now a boxing trainer and could train Conor when he arrives in Britain in June.
6796
HRSC has, during 14,000 orbits, transmitted 293.34 gigabytes of data to Earth.
Individual stereo and colour images from a total of 89 Martian orbits were combined to create the map.
6797
A Spanish town on the Camino de Santiago pilgrimage route is warning pilgrims and other visitors to stop defecating along the famous path.
The signs are posted next to warnings that urge people not to litter.
6798
Choo said the club would have preferred for their fans to be treated with 'respect and freedom' as Leeds were .
WYP are yet to comment on Cardiff's statement.
6799
'And thanks in advance to the thousands of retail employees around the world who will start placing it on people's wrists starting Friday.'
6800
Mr Le Pen also said that France's Spanish-born Socialist Prime Minister was an 'immigrant' and so unfit to run the country.
6801
Arsene Wenger says that Arsenal will have to be perfect until the end of the season if they want to challenge for the title — but maintains that they will be ready if Chelsea slip.
6802
'He has a contract until 2016 and we are very happy with him because Barca are one of the few clubs in the world that are going into the final stretch of the season still capable of winning three trophies.'
6803
Once the Yazidi prisoners, made up of women, children and the elderly, realised they were not being executed but freed, many broke down by the roadside .
6804
This is the moment Jeremy Clarkson talked himself out of a ticket after leaving his bright green Lamborghini parked on yellow lines.
6805
After posting the rejection letter he received on Facebook, Mr Cordina saw the messages of support and decided to start a petition on change.org.
6806
'But because the trails are pretty rocky out there I tweaked my achilles.
‘She was on her bike and it’s quite hilly so I was more impressed that she kept up.
6807
QPR scored four goals in a Premier League away game for the first time since March 1994 v Norwich (4-3).
The game will be very important for both teams.’
6808
It also shows how many people have viewed the total project.
Videos can be filmed multiple times until the user is happy with the result, and then the clip is uploaded.
6809
Clinton sat to talk with three young Iowans at a coffee shop on Tuesday – all of whom were driven to the event by her Iowa campaign's political director .
6810
Teachers have warned that schools are now having to deal with pupils across the UK speaking up to 300 different languages - but hardly any English .
6811
According to Deadline, the newfangled project has an entirely new script which focuses on the relationship between Roland and Jake in Gunslinger, the first book.
6812
The face of the thug who kicked Mr Lane was captured on video.
Following the attack, Wiltshire Police issued the suspect’s photograph, although he has not been identified.
6813
Everything he does is with an eye on one day becoming a manager.
Moving from the youth team to a senior side expected to win the title is a big step but Pep Guardiola made the same leap at Barcelona.
6814
He got it with Ross McCormack giving them the lead after eight minutes.
Not that it seemed to affect him as he dictated the pace of the game in the early stages, feeding striker Smith well.
6815
Esa said it took until Monday to get the spacecraft back into ‘normal’ status.
Rosetta was tasked with studying the jets coming from its surface (shown in image).
6816
Other pieces gave the illusion of water being thrown in the models' faces .
Bondage is back: Any Step designs caused a stir at the Raffles International Showcase .
6817
Ferguson, whose double somersault horror fall from the favourite Merrion Square in the 4.20pm at Wincanton on Wednesday has been watched hundreds of thousands of times online.
6818
He told the Manchester Evening News: ‘As soon as the steps went down an officer with a pistol came on board.
He was complaining that everyone was picking on him.’
6819
Human companions will be served an assortment of seven, raw whole food amuses-bouche and a variety of drinks as part of a set Rawsome Tasting Menu which features gazpacho raw soup, golden quinoa, coconut and mango salad as well as avocado, blueberry and chia cheesecake.
6820
And the Spanish club may feel it is a good time to 'cash out'.
The destination depends on the outcome of the Sterling saga but both Liverpool and Arsenal fancy him .
6821
Two of the five bullets fired hit Hall Miami Gardens police told reporters in the days after the incident - explaining that Hall had attacked officers with the broom.
6822
What does the future of travel hold?
It's believed that space travel will impact holidays of the future, becoming a reality for luxury seekers .
6823
She had traumatic injuries and god knows what else was happening in her head,' he said following the horrific incident.
'We're dealing with real victims here...
6824
1. Heavy drinking males:
Researchers said health professionals should assess what group obese patients might fall into and treat them accordingly.
6825
Animal-lovers look away now!
The pro-sportsman was shooting a video for the Fayettechill outdoor clothing brand before the freak accident took place.
6826
But the youngster, who came to the UK six months ago, was traced this morning.
She was wearing a red jacket and black leggings with white stars on the legs .
6827
Shannon said: ‘I’m confident it’s the smallest.
Shannon believes that her egg, which measures just 1.8cm in length is 3mm smaller than the current record .
6828
We're going to give the fans a great night of boxing,' he said.
Garcia walks away after putting Salka on the canvas and insists he will 'kick butt' against Peterson .
6829
He has also said in the past that he wished she had been diagnosed with cancer rather than dementia, adding: 'I cannot believe I'm saying these words but it will give you some idea of how cruel this illness is.'
6830
Now doctors have told the Catholic leader that he must shed a few pounds as the extra weight is making his sciatica worse, especially when combined with his intense travel schedule.
6831
It’s a timeless beauty look that evokes a sense of eternal glamour and style, no matter the occasion'
'Here @patmcgrathreal and @shayashual transformed me into Marilyn.’
6832
Button pusher:
And it was whilst he was working for a real estate company for six months that he came up with the idea for the unique video.
6833
We are not picking players who are playing well for their clubs – he got taken off after 30 minutes the other week against United.
6834
'Jessica is safe and at home.
Police have confirmed Ms Bialek returned home, and she is now speaking with officers about her disappearance.
6835
Ms Marson (right) was suspended after other staff members claimed they had witness the alleged affair inside the Kempsey prison .
6836
The clip was recorded to give the future ISS workers an idea of what they can expect when they go into space to maintain the commercial spacecraft.
6837
Do they treat their friends and family well?
The more hang-ups they have, the more you'll be used as their therapist.
6. Are they positive and happy most of the time?
6838
By then he had a second, restoring Chelsea’s lead on 20 minutes after Isaac Buckley had briefly restored parity for the hosts.
Substitutes not used: Thompson (GK); Palmer, Grant .
6839
It's all change for Kevin Sinfield as he switches codes from League to Union .
Lambert celebrates after scoring during Liverpool's victory at Villa Park in January .
6840
Last month he described the new offer to Sterling as 'incredible'.
What's really disappointing is that a young talented player has had to put up with all this criticism.
6841
Spence's mother, Danika, ran out of the house to help her daughter, leaving unattended food cooking on the stove, which triggered a housefire .
6842
Sure, the midfielder’s shot took the kind of deflection for which there is no accounting, smacking Jason Denayer and spinning beyond a helpless Craig Gordon.
6843
But the club say the player will still need careful monitoring this week as they wait to learn the full extent of the problem.
6844
The National Human Rights Commission has launched its own investigation, which its president Luis Raul Gonzalez said would seek to ensure that there is 'no impunity' in the case.
6845
Flay filed for divorce on Friday, just one day after it emerged he had separated from his wife of ten years.
It has been reported they separated three weeks ago.
6846
Propaganda:
This meme alleges that women who avoid vaccination are 'more likely' to have a natural vaginal birth .
Public shaming:
Not true:
6847
With half of Britons supporting the idea, it is increasingly likely that Camilla will become queen .
Charles is hugely proud of her and she's so important to him.
6848
According to Mr Ryan's Facebook page, his son, Malachy, believed to be aged eight or nine, was hit by a bus around four years ago while walking home from school.
6849
Roberto Martinez, the Everton manager, is unconcerned by Lukaku joining Raiola .
Raiola has engineered big money moves for players such as Mario Balotelli at Liverpool .
6850
California Republican Rep. Darrell Issa, then the Oversight committee's chairman, told Lerner in one hearing that she had 'effectively waived your rights' by defending herself under oath.
6851
Earlier in the week, Mary looked beautiful in fuchsia while attending the opening of a research festival at the Technical University of Denmark in Lyngby on Thursday .
6852
Arno Backes explained to Daily Mail Australia how a trip around South America inspired his gigantic chocolate masterpiece.
6853
Local media were on the scene to report on a plane that crash landed and skidded off the runway in Japan .
6854
A young Irish rugby star escaped serious injury when his home was targeted by a gunman who fired multiple bullets through his windows.
6855
Despite having several tattoos while he was in the Marines, Sgt. Daniel Knapp  has been denied re-enlistment after getting a tattoo on his forearm – a pair of crossed rifles and 0311 designation for Marine riflemen, right – to commemorate his previous deployment .
6856
Despite the duo's dominance, Benzema is adamant he can compete for the title if he continues to perform for Real Madrid and at international level.
6857
The building is now a five-bedroom family home, currently on the market for £625,000, while the track has become a cycle path.
Royal connection:
6858
All spring he has shown to be a really nice colt.
I took him to Kempton for a day out three or four weeks ago for a little school and he was very impressive.’
6859
Yet the Wildcats made the best possible start, with makeshift centre Matt Ryan breaking clear from his own half to create a try for full-back Craig Hall, who kicked the first of his three goals.
6860
A man dubbed 'New Zealand's worst ever drink driver' has been released from prison, despite describing himself as 'a danger to the community'.
6861
Booked: Parolo, Mauricio .
Napoli playmaker Marek Hamsik (right) gets his pass away before Lazio striker Klose arrives .
6862
The NRL match review committee will be headed up by Michael Buettner along with Brad Clyde, Michael Hodgson and Peter Louis.
6863
Research by travel website GoEuro found that the British passport is the 11th most expensive of 51 countries included in the study, and it takes a worker earning minimum wage 11 hours to pay it off.
6864
She has since criticised the fashion industry for the scarcity of black models.
Dunn has openly criticised the fashion industry for its lack of black models and widespread racism .
6865
That is due to a FIFA ruling stating friendly match appearances do not commit a player to one country.
He has had an Irish as well as British passport for a number of years.
6866
Aston Villa may be able to sign Cordoba striker Florin Andone for as little as £2.5million.
The Spanish side are poised to be relegated and need to raise funds.
6867
, they showed them the photos in a specially made cage (pictured).
‘This indicates that the rats were able to discriminate the category of emotional expression.
6868
'In truth, Thomas Hoey Jr. is a self-absorbed, self-pitying, selfish man who is a danger to the community,' Castel said, The New York Daily News.
6869
A judge gave permission for the judicial review application to proceed after arguments over legal technicalities regarding the processes of planning permission.
6870
I hope some people get crucified for this!'
The decision came just one month after the festival made its way around the country and was headlined by Avicii .
6871
Police say she traveled to Maryland from Pennsylvania either last Sunday or Monday after leaving her 21-year-old wheelchair-bound son in a wooded park with nothing but a blanket and a Bible.
6872
Thinking that Miscavige was having a heart attack, the private investigator called his supervisor and asked for further instructions.
6873
It's unclear exactly what Rihanna was holding as she partied with her pals .
King Anthony ‏@TrillAC_ wrote: ' Rihanna look like a chick that would try anything.
6874
Bastia lost 4-0 to Paris St Germain, who claimed their fifth League Cup trophy with doubles by Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Edinson Cavani.
In 2012, Thiriez did not hand Bastia their Ligue 2 champions' trophy.
6875
The White House also asserted that climate change was already displacing animals and plants, including tropical orchids, some of which are only found in south Florida.'
6876
'The gators are surprisingly ok with the slackline.
Mr McDonald has been involved with alligators for over ten years and has taken handling classes .
6877
A statement on the company’s website read: ‘Confectionery companies around the world are feeling the squeeze of increasing costs.
6878
'I know the rules are the rules and I will accept my punishment, but I can honestly say I have no idea how a banned substance ended up in my system,' Mejia said in a statement issued by the players union.
6879
These zombie stars are thought to be leaving a 'mass grave' of white dwarf stars near the centre of the Milky Way.
6880
He probably shouldn’t have because he would have received the ball sooner if Ronaldo had not intercepted it before he reached him.
6881
He was reported in 2006 to have written on his blog that he 'half-heartedly' supported Villa and could name only three of their players.
6882
'I just can't,' Sharpe told ABC News.
'And I don't know what is being portrayed of him because I haven't listened to them, but he's a very good person.'
6883
The British musician long known for his experimentalism has written new songs and arranged older music for the production late this year at the New York Theatre Workshop.
6884
Roberto Carlos .
When he signed for Madrid I thought excellent, until I then realised I would get a hard time every day in training.
Ronaldo .
6885
Questionable hairstyles are not a new phenomenon in modern day football, but Brazilian player Ratinho has taken ridiculous barnets to a whole new level with his latest effort.
6886
Pictured is a Finnish navy boat .
It comes just months after Sweden suspected Russia of sending a vessel into waters close to the capital Stockholm.
6887
Firefighters spent 25 minutes trying to free the man from the car using clan lucas cutting equipment and glass stabilisation pack .
6888
Ali Fareed, 59: Convicted of raping a 12-year-old girl in New York City in 1989 .
Edwin Rivera, 66: Convicted of raping two teenage girls at knife point in New York City in 1972 .
6889
She told WSOC that she was forced to hang onto a tree as the earth shook.
American Google executive Dan Fredinburg was the first confirmed fatality on the mountain yesterday.
6890
Sophia hopes that it may allow other children from same-sex parent families to understand .
The clip may give parents ideas about to how to address some of life's most difficult topics.
6891
There is no stopping the Kevin Pietersen charm offensive with his KP24 foundation backing a campaign for a pioneering cancer treatment to be made available on the NHS.
6892
Beckford also has offers from clubs in Belgium.
Meanwhile, West Ham have revealed season tickets at the Olympic Stadium will cost as little as £289.
6893
In court: Robbie Knievel, pictured in court on Wednesday, was arrested for DUI in Montana after crashing into another car on Tuesday evening and setting off a chain-reaction crash involving two other cars .
6894
Delisle was arrested on Monday following the release of the viral video.
As a mother, I got very angry.
'It was a terrifying situation,' Hermenier said.
6895
Earlier on Sunday, federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten said there was no excuse for the violence.
6896
Jackie has never been identified.
By December 5, Rolling Stone acknowledged that there appeared 'to be discrepancies in Jackie's account.'
6897
The Sydney Morning Herald have reported that concern within the University of Sydney staff has led to its academic board shutting down this alternative pathway for school students.
6898
Even more impressive is that the trader managed to make the purchase just minutes before Nasdaq suspended trading of Altera because of the tweet from Mattioli.
6899
Of course we wanted to do very well for the last game of Stevie for the club but at the end of the day, we wanted to do it for the fans because this club deserves to have a trophy.
6900
After a few moments you should feel calm and more receptive to new information.
After the yoga session they were given a series of mental tests.
6901
And in July 2014, Mings bought new replica shirts for two supporters after his squad number changed from 15 to 3 after they had already purchased them.
6902
Maryland's middle class is the highest paid in the country, with an average income of $72,483.
The average is $57,369.
The national average income is $52,250.
6903
His team did not establish exactly why heavy snoring might cause early dementia, but previous research has established links between sleep disruption and dementia.
6904
Hardaker was at the centre of a police assault probe into an attack on a 22-year-old man at student flats in Leeds, but was not charged with any offence.
6905
'Trying to convince the average person to implant a piece of technology to increase security of their perceived already secure account is a battle unlikely to be won.'
6906
New Zealand international Reid ended speculation about his future when he penned a six-and-a-half year deal with the Irons last month.
6907
The newspaper reported that many of the students believe sitting the exam outside is a novel way to broaden their horizons and encourage them to feel more relaxed.
6908
They can seek exemptions if a doctor signs a form showing they understand the risks to their child if they don't get vaccinated.
6909
The winner of the third Nikkei National Geographic Photo Prize, Takezawa has made a living documenting remote communities .
6910
Granado, who is a maths teacher at MacArthur High School in Irving, Texas (pictured), was also arrested last month when she admitted kissing another boy, also 15, and lettin him touch her breasts .
6911
She also claimed to have taken his underwear as a trophy.
The fan posted a picture of Niall's clothes, which included his Calvin Klein boxer shorts, on Twitter .
6912
Vince Young earned a reported $64million in salary and endorsement deals - but was bankrupt before he even finished his NFL career.
6913
The angry employee comes out to the front of the restaurant to confront the customer, left, while at one point another worker appears and attempts to defuse the situation, right .
6914
The house (outlined) is in an area which is undergoing a £13million regeneration project, this image was taken in March 2009, seemingly before the issues which brought on the magistrates court case .
6915
After another below-par game Toure was described by Gary Neville as a 'weed' in Manchester City's garden .
Glove-wearing Sergio Aguero opened the scoring on derby day .
6916
Goal: De Jong .
Subs not used: Correa, Bergessio, Munoz, Rizzo, Coda, Djordjevic, Acquah, Marchionni, Romero, Frison .
Goal: Soriano .
6917
Julie Andrews from the beloved film The Sound of Music, fans of which continue to flock to Salzburg .
We also passed the house that served as the main location for the von Trapp family home.
6918
Thanks fer wroitin' moi another great letter.
But Mr Pyrotek settled on a message with less Australian slang.
By the way my name’s really Bruce.'
6919
She also said that she wants her readers and viewers to make her aware if her work upsets them, but it's the criticism 'born of others' insecurities' that she warned girls to ignore.
6920
Louis van Gaal's Manchester United still have a chance of winning the league, according to Mourinho .
He added: 'We need six victories and one draw from nine matches.
6921
The UK was average for the generosity of benefits and this was reflected in the percentage of people wanting to work - at 60% (stock image pictured).
6922
He also joked the Tories were the party of 'kitchen ownership' while Labour was the party of 'kitchen concealment'.
He described the party's formula as 'wealth creation for a moral purpose'.
6923
This mug shot of Steven Carl Day, who described by friends as an alcoholic, was taken in 2011 after he was charged with consuming alcohol in public .
6924
The Aston Martin was off the road in storage when it was bought by the unnamed current owner in 1982 for restoration .
6925
Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton finished 16th during Friday's Bahrain practice session .
The former was five seconds back, but more importantly 1.3secs ahead of his team-mate.
6926
Nathalie Croquet a photo-stylist from Paris created a photo series called SPOOF in which she recreated the ads of famous designers and brands .
6927
It said the most effective policy is to prevent the radicalization, recruitment and travel of would-be fighters.
6928
A cat who went missing after escaping a damaged crate after 14-hour flight from Abu Dhabi to New York about last week has been found.
Found!
6929
And by this weekend the former Stromsgodset player, who joined the Parkhead club in January last year, could have another championship medal to boot.
6930
A really special player.
He scores every week!
Tottenham striker Harry Kane celebrates scoring his 22nd goal of the season against Arsenal in February .
6931
Marina said: 'When you take a sick dog to the vets you do expect the operation to be a success, which it has, but you do not expect the dog to end up like this.'
6932
AS claim that Real Madrid could have settled the tie in the first half... 'but Oblak said no'
Enrique, though, says: 'I've not seen the pictures from the Pizjuan (Sevilla's stadium)'.
6933
Weaver would like to meet the president at her birthday party because she has voted for him twice.
Weaver's 93-year-old son visits on a regular basis.
6934
Brazilian Massa is confident he has silenced his critics following storming start to the Formula One season .
'It's fantastic because the driver cannot do anything alone.
6935
The fancy dress options for girls and boys hint at very different future careers .
Not all, however, are so keen with many parents arguing that pink and blue toys are harmless.
6936
That's why it would be a good idea for United to raid Borussia Dortmund.
These are not bad players just because of half a season.
6937
He said the agency requested a total of $600 million over the past two years for computer upgrades to implement the health law as well as a new law requiring foreign banks to report information about U.S. account holders.
6938
McCall, though, is ready to take whatever outcome is thrown his way.
McCall joins in training on Friday as the Rangers boss prepares his side for Saturday's clash .
6939
Barnes had even better success with England's 1990 World Cup song World in Motion by New Order - where his timeless rap helped the tune reach No 1.
6940
The study, published in the Journal of Marriage and Family, found women who did not work did an average of 6.8 hours before their husband's retired.
6941
Her initial story was that she had put the baby, Alice, in a crib and then found her dead later on.
Neighbors told police that the children had been left alone on other occasions.
6942
Report author Robin Simcox said: 'The focus has been about the so-called mass surveillance by GCHQ and the NSA but these leaks have allowed extremist groups and jihadists to look at our capabilities – what we can and can't do – which has given them a great insight.
6943
Sharry called the ghostly final picture 'amazing'.
But in the early hours of the next day, she awoke to a call that Smith had been rushed to the OU Medical Center in Oklahoma City after he had fallen and hit his head.
6944
In LA, Lily wore an Elie Saab gown (£30,000) on March 1.
Lily picks a Thirties silk and wool dress by Dior (£3,550) at the Canadian premiere.
6945
Cooped up in the Department of Health, he admitted it is difficult to practice what he preaches on keeping healthy .
Not anymore.'
6946
He obtained a license for the gun in 2013 .
The teenager posted a picture of himself in a police vehicle and called it 'the best car I've ever been in for sure'
6947
The alternative treatment did not work, and her mother passed away in 2013, an event which Ms Ainscough said brought her to her knees.
6948
The likes of Diego Costa, John Terry and Gary Cahill will be representing Chelsea in North America .
Chelsea .
LA Galaxy .
San Jose Earthquakes .
6949
One in five parents sedates their children before a long road trip, despite fears the medication can cause breathing problems.
6950
Dubai: It's still 'bling' but the natural habitat of the mega-wealthy has a developing cultural underside .
There is now the annual Dubai International Jazz Festival.
6951
Herrera’s commitment was amply rewarded against Aston Villa.
No wonder he left with acclaim from his manager ringing in his ears.
6952
Even those players from that team who never went on to manage have stayed in football with Giovanni now working as a scout for Olympiakos and Guillermo Amor a former director of Barcelona’s youth academy who is now director of football at Adelaide United FC.
6953
Speaking at the NASUWT union’s annual conference in Cardiff, she attacked the shocking truancy levels in the city caused by auditions for talent shows.
6954
The inflatable, nicknamed Ba Di Doll, has appeared at Wanda Plaza commercial complex in eastern China's Nanjing city, according to the People's Daily Online.
6955
Mr Larson said he wants Delta Airlines to admit the chunk of ice came from their aircraft.
Batzel said: 'There’s a slight possibility the ice-ball fell from an airplane.
6956
Cosmopolitan:
'We live in a changing world, and photography is the only way of documenting exactly what I see for future generations.'
Contrast:
6957
Holy Week:
Penitents take part in a ceremonial Holy Week display inside a chapel in Arcos de la Frontera, Spain on Tuesday .
Passion of Christ:
6958
One traveller in particular knows how wrong a holiday snap can go, after he posted a picture online of him 'missing' the top of the Eiffel Tower and asked users to help improve his photo.
6959
As a laird-turned-fighter,  Jamie's key look is 'mucking out the horses', all while wearing a skirt.
Of his kilt-wearing, dashing actor Sam has admitted that he liked the experience.
6960
The news comes as cigar use rises in the US, where the study was carried out, and cigarette smoking declines.
6961
The driver, a 20-year-old Grovedale man, is under police guard in Geelong Hospital and is yet to be questioned.
6962
CEO Cheryl Bachelder then released a statement Wednesday evening, saying head office had 'reached out' to the owner of the Channelview store and asked him to 'apologize and rectify' the situation.
6963
A catalogue of failings have been uncovered at two NHS hospitals after seven babies and three mothers died there in the space of just eight months.
6964
Amy said: 'Following my 53 marathons in 53 days challenge last year, I’ve been approached and given some fantastic opportunities.'
6965
Sudan was moved, along with two female rhinos, from a zoo in the Czech Republic in December 2009.
'Keeping the ranger team safe is expensive,' the appeal reads.
6966
He defended her reporting, and described the supposed rape victim as 'a really expert fabulist storyteller'.
Erdely wrote 405 pages of notes about the story.
6967
Footage of the accident, which happened several months ago but officials tried to keep quiet, was posted on social network sites.
6968
The discovery of cremated bone (pictured), thought to be the earliest ever identified in Britain, could re-write the history of Mesolithic, or Middle Stone Age burial practices .
6969
Orellana was shown a red card for throwing the chunk of grass in the direction of Busquets .
The lump of turf strikes Busquets in the neck after tempers reached boiling point in Spain .
6970
Shot by adoring dad, called Barles Charkley on the site, who is based in Baltimore, Maryland, the video stars his toddler daughter Viktoria, as she comes to terms with the tragedy that is the death of Simba the lion's father, Mufasa.
6971
Free with admission (£47.28 family); Apr 3-6; Cadbury World, Linden Rd, Bournville, Birmingham B30 2LU; 0844 880 7667; cadburyworld.co.uk .
6972
It's unclear how the whale died but it doesn't appear to have broken bones or signs of blunt force trauma .
The club did not respond to a request for comment.
6973
He is now facing a charge of contempt of court in Kentucky for misrepresenting himself to police five years ago.
6974
The Kardashian-Jenner patriarch and reality TV star addressed his gender journey during the two-hour prime time special airing tonight on ABC.
6975
Monaco are bidding to overturn a 1-0 deficit after defeat in the first leg in Turin last week .
The Monaco players are taken through their exercises as they train on Tuesday .
6976
Yesterday, a Church spokesman said: ‘The arguments set out in the letter are so flawed and inaccurate they need to be placed in special measures.
6977
The Ukip leader will say the boatloads of people trying to get to the continent from North Africa could provide a cover for jihadis wanting to do harm.
6978
The victim continued to talk to Boente, who she felt sorry for, but he suddenly started asking where she was and leaving threatening messages if she didn't reply.
6979
He admitted that he had already been involved in 'informal' discussions with those in other parties about possible deals.
6980
She's even opened a chain of gyms.
The 56-year-old singer described herself as a 'closet comedian' before getting up for an 'impromptu' stand up routine.
6981
Their form has dipped at points since, most notably in defeats to Newcastle United and Tottenham Hotspur, but Azpilicueta is confident that Chelsea have been able to get through their bad moments unscathed.
6982
Larry Reid was arrested for DUI about 12:40 p.m. between Boulder City and Searchlight in Nevada.
He is leaving Congress after 30 years .
6983
The New York Post also wrote a column last month comparing the real-life doctor to the fictional doctor on Tina Fey's hit comedy.
6984
'I was told that the previous tenants antagonised him but I'm obviously not like that so I didn't think it would be a problem,' she said.
6985
Jacobean dramatist John Fletcher (left) most likely collaborated with Shakespeare on Double Falsehood (right), which was long thought not to have had anything to do with the Bard .
6986
Once found, Sinbad was taken to the Laurels Veterinary Surgery in Whitecross, Hereford, where he was fed a little at a time.
It was very odd.
6987
The parents of Elijah Cook were worried he may be born deaf.
Elijah went on to fail three more tests.
The touching family moment was first uploaded to YouTube.
6988
Todd Kincannon, 33, was arrested and booked into the Lexington County Detention Center on Monday evening.
You have pushed me so far down the hole that I don’t care any more.'
6989
Tim Sherwood has confirmed he will start Shay Given against Liverpool in the FA Cup semi-final at Wembley on Sunday, a day before the Irishman turns 39.
6990
History lovers will know that Pembrokeshire was the scene of the last attempted invasion of Britain in 1797.
6991
The company will continue to enforce its current terms of service, 'which make clear that discrimination in any form is not tolerated and will result in removal from the platform,' she said.
6992
The 31-year-old builder, from Keighley, near Bradford, has kept the board.
It comes two days after a shop assistant spotted the image of Christ on a hot cross bun.
6993
Adding more goals to his game this season, the youngster is more than capable at shooting from distance and boasts an explosive right-foot.
6994
‘I thought the game today might pan out as it did, but Wednesday will be different with Livingston flying in terms of their recent results.
‘I said from day one that Haris has got fantastic ability.
6995
Tottenham's Harry Kane - the only English attacking player in the team of the season - took the 2014/15 Young Player of the Year award.
6996
We also asked why the force spent 11 months investigating the carbon monoxide theory.
The pathologist gave a result of carbon monoxide intoxication.'
6997
What's even more frustrating is he can't contribute in meetings.
'The World Cup is not an issue at all.
'I'm not remotely frustrated at them,' said O'Shea.
6998
The ocean-front home, which was built in 1918, has seven bedrooms and 18 bathrooms .
In the Florida sale, Jones bought the oceanfront part of the property, which sits on six-acres of land.
6999
They asked groups to design products to deal with common problems.
The Nipper device (shown) is designed to help people who run out of battery while they are out and about .
7000
Alec Stewart (right) believes that Pietersen could make it difficult for the England selectors .
Pietersen made 170 runs off 149 balls during his stint with the bat in Oxford on Sunday .
7001
Miller (centre) looks dejected as his Rangers side slumped to a 3-0 defeat at Queen of the South .
'It was a performance that summed up out season a little bit.
7002
Burnley manager Sean Dyche has dismissed speculation linking him with Derby.
Burnley manager Sean Dyche, aka The Ginger Mourinho, insists he is enjoying life at Turf Moor .
7003
Monaco's new-found financial prudence is beginning to yield results, however, with Les Rouges et Blancs third in Ligue 1 and still in with a chance of qualifying for the semi-finals of European football's premier club competition for the first time in 11 years.
7004
(File photo)
The bill would also 'requires downward blowing hand dryer to not blow air at an air velocity that exceeds 115 miles per hour'.
7005
The final ten contenders for Star In ABra feature in the powerful new image recreating the notorious VS advert .
7006
England batsman Ian Bell has signed a three-year contract extension with Warwickshire that will keep him at the club until the end of the 2017 season.
Bell has won five trophies with Warwickshire, including the County Championship in 2004 and 2012, the B&H Cup in 2002, the Clydesdale Bank 40 in 2010 and most recently the NatWest T20 Blast at Edgbaston last season.
7007
His only goal which hasn’t had affected the outcome of a match was a late consolation penalty in a 3-1 defeat at Old Trafford on Boxing Day.
7008
2001:
This grey, rather Maoist trouser suit by Debenhams looks like an outsize school uniform.
The length is spot-on, while bracelet sleeves stop a jacket becoming too masculine.
7009
The 71-yer-old had a procedure to have metal implants inserted into his cheekbones and nasal cavity in order to hold his prosthetic in place .
Mr Curry's prosthetic nose, which is held on by magnets.
7010
On their third date, just two months after the smash, Marko surprised Ranette by asking her to marry him.
Marko said: 'Everything has happened so quick.
7011
He told AL.com: 'There shouldn't be any guns being shot in that incident.'
Mary Brooks, Danel's great aunt, said she rushed home from work when she was told about the shooting.
7012
The club's technical director Michael Emenalo travelled to Spain on Saturday to watch the 23-year-old during Atletico's 2-1 victory against Deportivo, according to Spanish newspaper AS.
7013
Paula was delighted she could return to London to run the marathon again .
But the race will be remembered for the toilet stop she took en route .
7014
Rebels bikie boss Alex Vella said he was not a criminal and just wanted to return to Australia so he could rejoin his family, run his motorcycle club and continue his charitable good works .
7015
Saunders was convicted of fraud twice before her latest offence .
Judge Stephen Gullick decided against jailing her after he was told that she had repaid the money and was retraining as a teacher.
7016
Cardiff Crown Court heard that the three officers from South Wales Police were all arrested as a result of an investigation being carried out by the force's professional standards department.
7017
And a video the friends took during the trip shows that the weather was calm as they paddled to the New Dungeness Lighthouse for a lunch break, according to King 5 News.
7018
Tim Bresnan is keen to give England's selectors no choice but to pick him with wickets and runs for Yorkshire .
They are very capable of doing it.'
7019
A man set a bouncer on fire after he was kicked out of a bar.
The man retaliates by setting the bouncer on fire, police in Port St Lucie, Miami, said .
Seen from inside:
7020
A handful of Manchester City fans were ejected from Old Trafford for allegedly mocking the Munich Disaster .
Chief Superintendent John O'Hare hailed fans' behaviour.
7021
Terry Martin, 48, shot his girlfriend Laurice Hampton, 48, after she asked for half of the proceeds.
Records showed that there was a history of violence between the couple.
7022
The police were notified of the video after it was leaked online.
'It was the right thing to do,' Dindral told the Daily News.
She had no regard to it.
7023
Residents were forced to flee their homes in the town more than 60 years ago, with seismic instability noted as a main reason for the mass abandonment.
7024
During the sermon, Sharpton said: 'When he's wrong ... we protest.
Slager is being held in jail on murder charges and that is the 33-year-old's prison mugshot .
7025
On the day of his release last November, the moment he ate his first burger after being in prison for decades was captured on video (above Hanline tucking away into a bacon cheeseurger at a Carl's Jr restaurant)
7026
Nearby homes were evacuated, however no injuries were reported.
The fire began when lightning struck a water storage tank, launching it into the air.
7027
With a hop over the advertising hoardings, Duplan saw the funny side and attempted to explain the mix-up to his team-mates on the bench.
7028
They see both men lining-up for them next season.
It only remains to be seen just how much De Gea wants to join him in the Spanish capital.
7029
With the new Main Stand expected to be finished in around 15 months time, Liverpool supporters can start getting used seeing a different look to their stadium for every match.
7030
The jaguars are featured in the video away from their parents, and their father will not be involved in the upbringing of the cubs.
7031
Even Janner’s barrister, the late George Carman QC, who was instructed to defend him after the abuse allegations became public in 1991, was astonished that he escaped prosecution.
7032
Jeff Dubois swats away one of the hundreds of bees that swarmed around him and his cameraman on Friday morning in Washington .
Rush to save the bees:
7033
In a separate raid, the men stole the store manager's Mercedes E200 which they used as their getaway car.
Officers even found the umbrella captured on CCTV in his luggage.
7034
They found the temperature of the forehead and the nose is the best indication of a person’s drunken state, and built an algorithm to recognise intoxication with 90% accuracy.
7035
The volcano last erupted in 1972, and while it is widely believed to be among Chile's most dangerous, it was not under observation before it erupted today (the eruption pictured from Puerto Varas)
7036
They made an audacious attempt on the play-off places when Freedman replaced Pearce but have tailed off in recent weeks.
7037
The IFS warned that the promise of tackling the deficit in the next Parliament is based on 'almost entirely unspecified spending cuts and tax increases'.
7038
And each episode looks at the history of various types of vehicles, as the pair give old-bangers a new lease of life by restoring them to their former glory.
7039
Report author: Gabriel Heller Sahlgren (above) said the methods 'are not good for test scores'
In the early 2000s, it started to fall.’
7040
NYPD officers shot dead a suspect as he fled from the scene of a crime (above) and opened fire Wednesday night .
Officers say they did recover a weapon from the scene.
7041
The 19-year-old also faces competition from Kompany at City, and Deila would welcome another season-long loan arrangement.
'But he's a good player.'
7042
The 25-year-old striker came off after 58 minutes of Saturday's 1-1 draw at home to Stoke with a thigh strain.
7043
Many of the adverts in the book featured beautiful women in an effort to glamorise destinations and encourage people to travel .
7044
Recounting the route of Lincoln's funeral train to Springfield for burial, historian Adam Goodheart describes the tomb as 'a disappointment' and reconstructed in 'incongruous Art Deco style.'
7045
Ronald Koeman's message to his Southampton players is a clear one: Forget about the others, focus on yourselves and start scoring goals.
7046
This is the moment when a not-so-little baby elephant seal emerged from the sea to give a surprised tourist one big cuddle.
'Sweet moment in time':
7047
I had never seen anything like that before in my life.'
In 1995, a marine park was established by residents to tackle the problem of overfishing.
7048
He posted a video to his Instagram account today thanking fans for their concern over an 'administrative issue' as he walked along a beach in the sunshine.
7049
'And this is a club that is based around winning trophies.
The 42-year-old Rodgers also spoke of his eagerness to claim his first piece of silverware at Liverpool.
7050
Bayern host the Portuguese side on Tuesday and Guardiola is confident the Bundesliga leaders will emerge victorious.
'I do not know who will play or who can play.
7051
Aaron realises that the camera advertised on eBay is the one he left on the flight .
Viseu begs teacher Aaron not to report him to police and offers to return the camera .
7052
A Conservative Party spokesman said: 'If health bodies stop patients from having treatments on the basis of cost alone, then we will take action against them.'
7053
Sherrell, a former takeaway worker, always dreamed of being a model and was scouted at the age of 22 but then suffered an ectopic pregnancy that left her bedridden for months.
7054
The remaining ingredients will boost skin’s vitality and revive it.
2. Shake well before each use.
Rinse in the morning and wear sunscreen daily.
7055
Walking around to the front of the lamb, the duck begins pecking away at the lamb's head and neck as if grooming its woollen coat.
7056
Detectives raided Dr Rory Lyons’ private health centre and medical officials have suspended the 62-year-old from treating patients.
It was a shock.
7057
Moores was sacked from his first stint in charge in 2008, partially at the behest of Pietersen, whose intervention also cost him the captaincy.
7058
Sam Reese, a male model who recently appeared on Channel 4's First Dates show, has received death threats over his behaviour on the program.
7059
Recalls the ACCC have monitored in Australia included a punching bag that contained nails and needles, a vacuum that put users at risk of electric shock and burns, an 'egg free' ice cream that contained egg whites and a spear gun that fired without warning.
7060
The figures do not state where the foreign GPs trained but separate data from the General Medical Council shows many are from India, Pakistan, South Africa and Nigeria.
7061
She then steers head-on into a truck which rolls over on its side with debris flying everywhere.
The incident, which occurred just past 6pm, shut the highway for around two hours.
7062
We’re running out of rhinos.
Conserving rhinos should be easy, yet they’re going extinct not because of overcrowding but from human folly
7063
Mr Cameron argued that committed volunteers have ‘knocked on doors, stuffed envelopes, licked stamps to get his fat arse on the Commons benches, and this is how he repays them’.
7064
That's according to one researcher who travelled to the country to study how the Indian and Eurasian plates are moving together.
7065
Julie Schenecker, pictured in an interview from jail, has said she does not regret shooting her 13-year-old son and 16-year-old daughter dead at their home in January 2011 .
7066
It took him just five minutes to make the indelible mark.
'Is Gascoigne going to have a crack?,' he asked.
It was a relaxed, throwaway question.
7067
North Las Vegas police Officer Aaron Patty said the four-month-old child was released from a hospital and turned over on Monday to the custody of Clark County Child Protective Services.
7068
Maura Pally (left) said that money received from a businessman when he was seeking State Department approval for selling his company to Russia (right) could not be disclosed under Canadian law .
7069
'He is a great guy as well.
'They have bought players in and haven't spent wisely.
The players that have been brought in aren't down to him.
7070
This shocking image shows the moment a car smashed into the front of a house and became stuck in the wall.
Incredibly, no-one was serious injured in the accident.
7071
In some churches, they may wash each other's feet.
Some Christians may hold an all night vigil in church, remembering Christ's time in the Garden of Gethsemane.
7072
Don’t none of y’all work as hard as I do - Virginia .
Meanwhile, people in New Haven sometimes use 'so don't I', such as in the sentence, 'he plays guitar, but so don't I'.
7073
He was unable to be revived, but a doctor at the scene said that it was likely he died of a heart attack.
It's believed that he was from Seymour in Victoria.
7074
Klopp (left) stands alongside Hansa Rostock boss Juri Schlunz during his days as Mainz manager, where he built the foundations of his reputation after guiding them into the UEFA Cup .
7075
The New Jersey judge says the concert trip isn't evidence of bad parenting, despite protestations by the father.
7076
On the messaging service, he had sent Pegram's account a message apologizing for leaving her but making sure she had got home OK, WCSC reported.
He said he later forced her out of the car .
7077
Smokin’ Joe was the undefeated two-belt champion but it was this proud black man’s bizarre adoption by America’s conservative right which stoked the fires of society still further.
7078
Heart-broken:
 Flowers blanketed a room in Valetta's Mater Dei Hospital morgue in Malta, as other mourners gathered on the beach (pictured)
7079
'I'm 51,' replied Michelle Obama.
Michelle Obama was so touched by the little girl's flattery that she called her up on stage to give her a big hug.
7080
England, meanwhile, should confirm on Wednesday that Moeen Ali will join the squad in time for the second Test in Grenada after successfully coming through his return after injury with Worcestershire.
7081
'I've been told this morning that we hope it will be concluded by the time we arrive here on Saturday, whether that's today or tomorrow I am not 100 per cent sure.'
7082
The cheeky elephant forces itself into the line of elephants after breaking their tail-to-trunk chain .
7083
She said: 'I told him it was ChapStick.
The ticket caused Fragoso to receive points against her driving record.
'Nevada's goal is and always will be zero fatalities.'
7084
Mr Rose said the event, which was attended by 250 people, took place at a community centre in Southampton on February 21 - more than a month before Parliament was officially dissolved.
7085
But the community of about 30 squatters are refusing to leave.
The former IT worker said: ‘Our aim here has always been to build a sustainable community.’
7086
IKEA employees said the problem is difficult to manage, because so many Chinese shoppers do it .
It is not the first time IKEA has had to deal with over-familiar customers in China.
7087
Further scrutiny of Williams's record turned up other questionable claims, including dodging rocket fire over Israel and seeing a body floating through the French Quarter of New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina.
7088
VERDICT: This honey is so rare it is sold in very small jars, so every teaspoon is expensive.
The delicate honeycomb adds a crumbly texture.
7089
In fact, the guys coming back are equally tired or even more so.
Quins are still without England full back Mike Brown and have brought in George Lowe at outside centre.
7090
Video footage has emerged of a drunken stag party group who caused mayhem on a flight from Scotland to Spain.
He was banned from flying back .
7091
With increasing numbers of people taking to the skies, some experts are questioning if having such packed out planes is putting passengers at risk.
7092
'Tidying up and organising your storage spaces will always add value to any home, sell old clothes and shoes' she told DMA to make look wardrobes look as good as those on The Block .
7093
He ultimately became part of a group that included Lionel Messi, coming through the ranks.
Alas, he left for Arsenal in 2003 having not been picked for a single first-team game.
7094
Rescue:
Resident:
The beautiful animal may have been living in the crawlspace for some time before being discovered .
'He thinks this is his den.'
7095
Eerie footage has emerged showing a mysterious 100 metre-wide black ring of smoke floating over clear skies in Kazakhstan - convincing locals it was caused by a UFO.
7096
The item was listed earlier in March and bidding ended on Tuesday but it is unclear whether anyone actually stumped up the sizeable sum being quoted.
7097
At just 21 years and 251 days, the Tottenham striker led out his side for the first time in draw with Burnley .
7098
Carwyn Scott-Howell's death was a tragic accident, according to state prosecutor Pierre Yves Michau .
Carwyn carried on skiing and then ventured into a wooded area.
7099
The average Briton enjoys 884 cups of tea each year – or enough to fill two bathtubs, a survey has found.
7100
He explained infants are 'at a high risk of dying if they get infected' and that the death rate from whooping cough in infants under 6 months of age is about 1 per cent.
7101
From the kitchen, french doors open up the home.
The master bedroom has beautiful French doors which also open out onto a balcony.
7102
The latest official figures show that more than half of those newly diagnosed with HIV in Britain – where their country of origin is known – were born overseas .
7103
To her utter surprise, she conceived baby Sebastian naturally .
She had to undergo several rounds of chemotherapy which doctors said would destroy her fertility .
7104
Tim Howard is adamant the Europa League is not to blame for Everton's poor season in the Premier League .
Subs not used: Robles, Besic, Garbutt, Alcaraz.
7105
Some of the animals at Zambi also starred in the movie industry in the days before  computer imaging and special effects.
7106
However, Khan, who was also linked with bouts against Adrien Broner and Keith Thurman, said he was already deep in negotiations to fight somebody else.
7107
With an impressive flourish of national pride, the Turkish government has declared the whole area a Historic Park, to show the futility of war.
7108
During the brutal beating, Isabelle put his hands inside the woman's pants and sexually assaulted her, according to DiBella.
7109
She even treated herself to breast enlargements.
Although doctors told her she would never conceive again, she gave birth to Lexi-River on March 31 last year.
7110
A report suggests that carbon dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels could be captured and used to produce the fizz in Cola (stock image shown)
7111
The Bulgarian won five of his bouts between 1998 and 2003, losing once to Toni Naskovski in Macedonia in 1999.
7112
An Ohio woman discovered that her biological mother worked at the same company as her and lived only six minutes away.
Mitchell-Clark also found out that she had three biological younger sisters.
7113
For sale:
Haunting:
The airport was designed to cater for Spain's booming economy to serve both city and coast via a high speed rail link.
7114
For now, ISIS' priority is Tel Tamr, where it aims to cut a YPG supply route, he added.
The militant is no longer in control of the terrorist group, according to an Iraqi source .
7115
What happened next will ultimately shape his career as a United player.
Shaw is struggling to come to terms with his new life and has turned to United's psychologist of late .
7116
With Dybala rated at £35m, PSG's unsettled striker Edinson Cavani could be a cheaper alternative .
'We do like Dybala and he is one of our objectives,' Marotta said.
7117
A fight over religion broke out on a boat carrying 105 migrants from Libya, after which 12 men 'professing the Christian faith' were thrown to their deaths.
7118
Sumner said he spoke to friends on the way to the stadium about carrying out the stunt.
'I'm not encouraging people do it and if I go to another game, I'm not going to do it again.'
7119
Treasurer Joe Hockey said the states had agreed to work toward applying the 10 per cent GST to movies and music downloaded from streaming services such as Netflix and Apple.
Netflix subscription: 90c increase to $9.90 .
7120
I need a player like him to make the team perform.
My team will play with style and class with Zizou.
I remember when I arrived in 2004 (in the national team), he welcomed me.
7121
‘She told Julie-Ann that she thought it looked almost deliberate.
Cheech is being treated by Bruce Fogle, father of TV presenter Ben, at The London Vet Clinic.
7122
Bath will look to their England contingent to lead the charge against Leinster in Dublin as they attempt to make amends for their Six Nations defeat at the Aviva Stadium last month.
7123
The City watchdog said management at the bank were not aware this was going on.
The cost of PPI mis-selling is expected to spiral as complaints continue to flood in.
7124
Following the deal, Israeli leaders immediately raised concerns, vowing to fight any agreement before it is finalized in the coming months.
7125
At Bob McDonnell's sentencing, Judge James Spencer described Williams — who testified under immunity for the prosecution — as a 'serpent' that Maureen let into the Executive Mansion.
7126
The 16-year-old almost joined United in the January transfer window only for him to opt to stay in France for a few more months.
7127
Colombia striker Falcao joined United on a one-year loan deal in September but has failed to shine .
7128
In an IRS spreadsheet published online by the newspaper, partisan government officials characterized the activities of 21 of those groups as 'propaganda.'
7129
An Israeli tourist captured the hilarious moment a group of baboons robbed a supply truck of its snacks.
7130
The entire property has eight bedrooms and eight full bathrooms over two buildings, as well as an outdoor barn .
A large gym can also be found at the home, as well as a spa and a sauna .
7131
Gary Cahill has spoken of the demands of maintaining a  title challenge as he looks to secure his first ever Premier League winners medal with Chelsea this season.
7132
Or if monogamy proved a challenge during the Starter Marriage, an Open Marriage contract 'might be an attractive option', she said.
7133
'We're out the door by 8am, so when we all have time to sit together and have breakfast it's the only zen time we have,' said Falkiner.
Time it:
7134
Other experts said more research was needed, and the way GPs used to diagnose dementia may have skewed the results.
7135
Group 22, 11:47am: Jose Maria Olazabal, Brendon Todd, Kevin Na .
Group 25, 12:31pm: Miguel Angel Jimenez, Lee Westwood, Anirban Lahiri .
7136
'He grabs the microphone and gives a speech, which went along the lines of: 'well isn't this a real treat, I've been a rugby man all my life but now I finally get to hang out with some real footballers' to which of course the crowd went crazy,' Mr Carradous said.
7137
Comedian Dom Joly proved he still had work to do on his diving despite training from Tom Daley, after making a real splash in the round-the-world Volvo Ocean Race in Brazil.
7138
Her mother hopes her new career will help her overcome the death of her father who was shot dead near the Kremlin .
The height of fashion:
7139
Disturbingly, it also found that in many circumstances the workers had been in their organisation for some years before going rogue.
7140
Competitive eater Mary Schuyler accomplished the stunning feat in front of hundreds at the Big Texan Steak Ranch restaurant in Amarillo, Texas on Sunday.
7141
Journalist and artist Nastasi curated over 50 intimate portraits of well-known artists and their beloved animals .
7142
Wales have reached their highest ever position in the FIFA world rankings by rising 15 places to 22.
9.
Switzerland (12) 10.
Chile (15) 17.
7143
The funeral for tragic NSW teacher Stephanie Scott will be held next Wednesday in her home town of Canowindra, and the parish priest officiating at the ceremony is bracing himself for a hugely emotional occasion.
7144
Shackled and handcuffed: Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran cut sad figures as they were escorted by four faceless Indonesian police officers across the tarmac after being taken from Korobokan prison in Bali to their final destination, Death Island .
7145
Manager: Jose Mourinho 7 .
Subs not used: Da Silva, Van Persie, Valdes, Pereira .
‘We played the best match this season but in football you can lose in spite of you being the better team.
7146
He said he did not think it was advisable to 'choose sides' as firms will have to work with whichever party or parties form the next Government.
7147
Carla Suarez Navarro advanced to the final of the Miami Open after topping Andrea Petkovic 6-3, 6-3 in a semi-final  on Thursday.
7148
The Queen’s staff will take industrial action for the first time in history over their ‘ridiculously low’ wages.
‘These activities have never been compulsory.
7149
During a talk in Washington yesterday, the space agency announced that humanity is likely to encounter extra-terrestrials within a decade.
7150
A former college student is suing her school over claims she wasn't allowed to audition for the dance team because of her weight.
7151
The number of allergy sufferers is soaring and almost half of those with severe allergies live in daily fear of suffering a potentially fatal reaction .
7152
The package was examined and 'deemed to be harmless', according to a report by CNN.
Just last week US officials announced that temporary steel spikes may be put on the tips of the railings.
7153
In a list that is heavily populated by Tottenham players, White Hart Lane's Nacer Chadli is fourth in the standings with a score of 35.3 after opening the scoring in their victory at Newcastle.
7154
Research from the NASUWT union shows that the majority of teachers today are verbally abused by pupils.
She was expelled following the NASUWT’s ballot notice.
7155
The robber pulls out what appears to be a fake machine gun from his bag .
Pointing the fake machine gun directly at the shop assistant he demands the money from the till .
7156
Examples of ornaments worn by European foraging societies are shown .
They say the findings may also force a complete rethink about how agriculture first arrived in Britain.
7157
Officers from the North West Counter Terrorism Unit started investigating the teenager in January when they received information that he was attempting to obtain the poison.
7158
Gowanus was labeled a Superfund site in 2010, with the EPA later saying that cleaning it up would take up to ten years and $506million, according to DNA Info.
7159
Kroeger appeared on Saturday Night Live from 1982 through 1985, and is perhaps best known for portraying Donny Osmond in a sketch with Julia Louis-Dreyfus.
7160
As Iran's top diplomat prepared to visit, Pakistan said it would take its time deciding whether to accept the Saudi request to join the coalition.
7161
Benaud was the voice of cricket for generations, commentating in his native Australia and for the BBC .
'A disgraceful performance from a captain who got his sums wrong.
7162
Pipefish selfie!
With the ability to use a GoPro camera from an extended vantage point, the diving instructors now take every opportunity they can to take selfies with underwater animals, including eels (pictured)
7163
Stephen Akers-Belcher said he needed time off for compassionate reasons - but was pictured the same day aboard HMS Warrior.
7164
They tested their theory using a 10-Hertz current run through electrodes attached to the scalp on 20 volunteers to stimulate the brain's natural alpha wave oscillations.
7165
The radiant TV star also ruled out the possibility of trying for another child, but has found peace with it.
She adds: 'How I feel about Chris still feels new.
7166
Michelle said that Ruben was so mature it was 'unbelievable', saying he just kept calm and told her to breathe, while her partner Ben was helping to deliver the baby .
7167
‘Ultimately the parties say Mr Williams gained the upper hand in the fight as the bigger and younger man, and both me went to the ground.
7168
Asked what she would do if Mr Farage asked her to 'carry on the mantle', Miss Evans today told Murnaghan on Sky News: 'Well if he said that to me, of course I would, yes.
7169
He met Dee and, after living together for five years, tied the knot in 2011 before embarking on a course of IVF treatment.
'We were so happy though.
7170
'This is horrific' agreed @Rozakthegoon,a sentiment echoed by many .
River Island removed the book from their shelves and apologised to tweeters individually for the offence caused .
7171
Officials have complained the bronze sculpture of Yu The Great's wife has been worn down and discolored by sightseers constantly fondling the artwork, reports The People's Daily.
7172
He was successful and moved out to New York alone to pursue his career in modelling.
The likes of the Spice Girls encouraged the "feel good" movement.
7173
Subs not used: Reveillere, Graham, Coates, Mannone, Buckley.
Alan Pardew's side were headed into a second-half lead thanks to this effort from striker Glenn Murray on 48 minutes .
7174
Odegaard takes his place on the bench alongside regular first team player Isco .
Odegaard will become Real Madrid's youngest player in the club's history if he comes on .
7175
Veteran Leeds prop Kylie Leuluai is facing the prospect of another six weeks on the sidelines after being told he needs shoulder surgery.
'He will be out for anything from between four to six weeks.'
7176
A 25-year-old man left brain damaged as a baby after a blunder by doctors has today won his 23-year battle for £7.3 million compensation.
7177
Eva Chapin, 34, from West Linn, Oregon, was booked into jail after she left a string of offensive post-it notes on the door of the family home.
7178
But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has distanced itself from the former army chief’s views.
The Yemen rescue: Indian nationals in Dijibouti before taking off for Mumbai .
7179
'After that I looked at the display more closely and saw that the composition was really good - Oscar made a really nice turn as I took the shot.
7180
How could you say no?
The shelter, which is based in Riverhead on Long Island posted a picture on Thursday that was hard for dog-lovers to resist.
7181
Friends then raised the alarm on Sunday, saying it was 'very out of character' for her not to return home.
This car has been seen at various locations on these roads and I want to know why.'
7182
On Facebook, Agbafe describes himself as a 'passionate, honest, open-minded individual'.
Ekeh, 18, was editor of his student paper and CEO of the Model UN.
7183
Brenna Happy Cloud of Salem, Oregon, has accused Facebook of discrimination after she was prevented from continuing to use her unusual name and was locked out of her account .
7184
Transgender teen Chase Culpepper, 17, who was born male but identifies as female, was told by DMV officials that she had to remove make-up (left) for her license photo last year (after taking off make-up right).
7185
Blind said: 'I think Manchester United is always a club that is fighting for the title.
Blind has urged Manchester United to focus on their next Premier League match against Chelsea .
7186
'Scything is an efficient and poetic way of cutting rather than the way it was portrayed on Poldark where it was this very aggressive, manly action.
7187
Jack Wilshere, pictured in first team training last week, is set to play for Arsenal Under 21s on Tuesday night .
7188
AFP found the star system by tracing out the planets' orbits over many years using the Doppler technique to see shifts in the star's light.
7189
Iona Costello, 51, and daughter Emily were recognized by the front desk manager of the hotel they were staying at on Sunday, it was reported.
7190
But striker Alex Morgan hailed Nike's design as innovative.
The neon yellow socks or 'volt' in Nike parlance are aimed to draw attention to the bright blue cleats.
7191
Goalkeeper Bill Hamid blocked Sacha Kljestan's free kick, but the ball squirted away and Sam beat his defender to the loose ball for the equalizer.
7192
However, fewer of the younger voters say they are certain to vote - 52 per cent of 18 to 34-year-olds against 67 per cent overall.
7193
The outcome on Sky was depressingly predictable.
The BBC may miss out on the Premier League's pricey weekly thrills, but took the biscuit on Saturday.
7194
Mr Clegg meanwhile has said he will go for a walk to 'clear my head' before making his way to the TV studios, while Mr Miliband said the best preparation was 'getting out to meet people'.
7195
A front-loader was in the area, but it's unclear if the vehicle was digging at the time of the explosion, he said, adding that 'it was a large explosion that shook the surrounding area'.
7196
The UFC bantamweight champion was all smiles at the Hollywood event at the TCL Chinese Theatre .
Rousey throws Triple H over her shoulder and into the canvas as The Rock watches on .
7197
Injured:
Best friends:
McDonald told ABC that Layka adapted to civilian life quickly and that she became fast friends with his son Liam.
7198
According to reports, all of Barrientos' marriages took place in New York state.
Authorities reportedly slapped her with offering a false instrument for filing felony charges in November 2014.
7199
In 2005, Congress gave the agency the ability to use the forgotten money to help fund security operations.
7200
Mother of two:
She's accused of sending the inappropriate message this past March 31 under the subject line: 'Great article on writing briefs.'
7201
Sir Roy Strong, the landscape designer and former director of the Victoria and Albert Museum, told the Sunday Times: ‘British people used to take pride in having neat gardens with lots of flowers.
7202
Mariah appeared to be a dab hand with the cake mix while whipping up late-night treats for her three-year-old twins Moroccan and Monroe .
7203
There have been 11 suicide attempts at the jail in the last year.
An investigation into Kaneshiro's death is ongoing.
7204
'I got my phone out because I heard the actual noise and I think I saw a flash,' he said.
'Power was isolated to surrounding homes and premises for four hours.
7205
Anthony Bethell and St John's College, Oxford are embroiled in a row over a stretch of scrubby bushes, with a court case likely to cost £150,000 .
7206
Factors behind the decline vary from shops now opening on a Sunday and more live football on TV, meaning more people put off the chore at the weekend.
7207
Whether you sprout the odd grey hair, spend hours eradicating them or let your silver locks flow free, the latest hair trend is good news for women everywhere.
7208
This weekend's match against Newcastle will also see Pochettino come up against a countryman who has made many a headline of late.
7209
Father-of-four Gavin Thorman, 36, of Caernarfon, Gwynedd, operated his drug empire from HMP Altcourse in Liverpool, where he boasted in Welsh that he would make 'millions' when he got out of jail, Caernarfon Crown Court heard.
7210
Martin Odegaard's week got worse when the 16-year-old wonderkid who cost £2.3m was refused a rating .
Carlo Ancelotti has been patient with Odegaard.
7211
David Ginola was seen at the event, one of his first public appearances after he tried to run for FIFA presidency .
7212
Smith, a lesbian, has been with her partner Iris Love (above) for years .
Which was an odd thing to hear from someone just starting a career in show business,' says Smith.
7213
Mandi said Walter lives a life of leisure and likes to flap around in her hand in the sun, pretending he can fly.
'Walter doesn't get tea every day but he likes it.
7214
I think this is the right choice.'
Ms Raunigk and her large brood are seen during an appearance on German television in 2005 .
7215
The situation got so bad that Julia would hide food from her family so they were unaware of how bad her eating had got.
I'm a new woman.'
7216
Wozniacki saved three match points before the 27-year-old Kerber kept her cool to convert her fourth chance for her second title in a month after Charleston.
7217
Gene Ormsby claimed two tries along with Toby King and Ben Currie.
'We trained for half an hour on our last run as a team simply because we need all our players playing or we will not fulfil our fixtures.'
7218
Launched by Twitter, Periscope allows users to broadcast a live stream to their social media followers.
CLICK HERE to read Periscope's terms of service .
7219
But the couple call it 'an accident', not child abuse.
Brenda Burns has refused to allow social workers and Michigan's Department of Human Services to see Naomi, according to the Livingston Daily.
7220
Relatives of Clay (pictured) said that the two men who have been arrested for attacking him - 19-year-old Quintavious Barber and 18-year-old Malik Morton - accused Clay of stealing a PlayStation 3.
7221
Eleven of the fans were again sentenced to death today, with their verdicts referred to Egypt's supreme court, the Grand Mufti.
7222
Cristiano Ronaldo (left) and Silva (right) are put through their paces in training ahead of their next game .
'I will choose the best possible line-up.
7223
As for Solanke, his place on the scoresheet was just inevitable.
Former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan revealed himself as a football fan by attending the final .
7224
Ukip meanwhile was said to be pressing for an inquiry into how the audience was chosen.
Miss Sturgeon later mocked Mr Farage's attempt to 'win friends and influence people'.
7225
'But at least I'll be able to be closer to him.'
His foot is in pretty rough shape in spots.'
Axford will be out for at least three days and a maximum of a week.
7226
Earlier this week Khan ended speculation over his next opponent by announcing he will fight former light-welterweight world champion Chris Algieri on May 30.
7227
The bill has been driven by the payment protection insurance scandal, with banks setting aside £4.7billion last year to compensate customers.
7228
There were a lot of great players out on the pitch, it was a great game and it helped me because I learned a lot from watching it.'
7229
Ronaldo joined the 300 club in just 288 appearances with this header against Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday night .
Booked: Tito, Nacho, Cobeno, Amaya .
7230
Incredibly Mr Lahiff, who had been playing alone, was still able to drive his golf buggy back up to the clubhouse to seek medical assistance.
7231
The mother-of-one has saved £17,000 over three years by spending an hour a day searching for deals and coupons.
What people don't realise is that a bit of research can save hundreds of pounds.'
7232
However, after months of discussions between the United board and manager Van Gaal the club will once again head across the Atlantic for a four-game tour signed off by the manager.
7233
This isn’t the first time Japan has tried to pump collagen into people.
In the US, many restaurants now serve special 'wrinkle free' menus of dishes loaded with collagen.
7234
Luke has limited speech and his family says he is probably confused, and he may not even be aware he is lost.
'We've also got people walking the banks of the lake.'
7235
The ‘English votes’ plan would seek to resolve a longstanding constitutional question which will become more urgent than ever once the Scottish Parliament is handed yet more powers.
7236
Ahead of the wedding Kim reported the abuse to the police where it was revealed Derek had abused other girls .
Kim said: 'I went to see him sentenced.
7237
The drive was used by Delphi engineers to research and collect information that will help further advance active safety technology – the most rapidly growing technology sector of the auto industry.
7238
'Just leave everything packed in your room and we will put it all your car, which will be waiting for you when you return.'
Poets House .
7239
Goska said: ‘During my volunteer at Criadouro Onca Pintada, Jaguar Breeding Project in Brazil I had the amazing opportunity to bottle feed one-year-old jaguar, Perseu.
7240
England international Carrick keeps the game simple but has been unappreciated in this country .
‘The best player on the pitch by a mile was Michael Carrick.
7241
'We then needed to carry out a full operation to remove the maggots that had managed to go deeper.'
'I just couldn't afford another medical bill.'
7242
Levy is known to be one of the toughest negotiators in Europe and will not let Lloris leave on someone else's terms.
7243
New research suggests Caucasians were a recent addition to the area, arriving on the continent 8,000 years ago .
7244
Baring teeth is a sign of fear and threatening in the monkey world. 
The video is cute, I just don't know if it's worth the monkey's agony.’
7245
The England international returned from injury to captain the Arsenal’s U21 side against Reading in the top-of-the-table clash.
7246
Detective Patrick Cherry appears on NBC tonight to 'sincerely apologize' for shouting at an Uber driver .
'That's not the way it works,' he continued.
7247
'Those affected by the short-lived illness responded well to over-the-counter medication being administered onboard the ship,' the company said.
7248
The battle at the bottom of the table is intensifying with all of the bottom eight sides separated by just seven points and still in danger.
7249
While the US military has traditionally experienced lower suicide rates than the civilian population, suicides among active duty service members have surged in the past decade, almost doubling in the Army and the Marines Corps, Reger said.
7250
Turkey has blocked access to Twitter and YouTube after they refused a request to remove pictures of Kiraz held during the armed siege last week.
7251
Lord Neuberger said Britain's privileged judges must be aware of their 'subconscious bias' when dealing with poorer members of society .
7252
After enduring two years of famine and fighting, Ibrahim Abdel Fatah said he saw heads cut off by ISIS in the Palestinian camp of Yarmouk.
7253
Other stations for sale in Queensland include Durham Downs, Durrie, Glengyle, Morney Plains, Naryilco and Rockybank.
7254
He is a big talent.
They need no reminders that man was captain John Terry.
As every player at Chelsea soon discovers, they cannot be around forever.
7255
De Jong has only made one league start this season but hopes to be involved in first-team again soon .
I played 72, 73 minutes and hopefully I can be part of the team next week.
7256
A video has emerged which appears to show a deputy hitting a heavily pregnant Iraq war veteran on her back during an arrest.
7257
The echidna - or spiny ant-eater - is  found all over Australia, in coastal forests, alpine meadows and desert habitats.
7258
But the pound fell to near 1.46 against the US dollar, its lowest level since June 2010 - just after the last election when no party secured a majority.
7259
Scroll down for video.
Ashley's co-workers helped arrange for her boyfriend to come out after an on-air discussion about engagement rings .
7260
I was always in pain.
'The first month went but  it wasn't as easy as I'd hoped.
In the supermarket with having shed teh wight, Bettie Jo looks for the 'light' options .
7261
Pausing at a watering hole, we were delighted to see two young male elephants wandering towards us.
These led him on foot to a pair of leopard cubs frolicking up a tree.
7262
Mayall, who played scheming Tory MP Alan B’Stard in ITV series The New Statesman, and a host of other comedy characters, died suddenly aged 56 last June.
7263
He was a systems support analyst for an IT firm and carried out work for Optus.
Investigators are looking at whether a structural fault contributed to Mr Saw's fatal fall.
7264
Ander Herrera says he bares his forename and surname on the back of shirt for supersitution .
7265
Chambers denied that she abandoned them, and said she had been paying child support.
The local chief of police said his officers knew at once they will not found anyone alive inside the house .
7266
Co-defendant Farouq Eshpari, 55, of Enfield, Middlesex, was also found guilty of money laundering.
Speaking after the verdicts Rommell Brown, 31, spoke of his relief at clearing his name.
7267
'I am fresh and confident going into this fight.
Ward's WBA world super-middleweight title will not be on the line when he faces Smith in June .
7268
The survey also found that 67 per cent want to make the standard ten minute appointment longer to give them more time to properly care for patients.
7269
He has been spotted crying when his dad tries to take him out on the pitch.
Messi carries his son next to his wife Antonella at the Nou Camp at the end of last season .
7270
Manchester United, Barcelona, Liverpool and Arsenal have all paid more in transfer fees in the past 12 months than City who were traditionally Europe’s biggest spenders after the club was taken over by Abu Dhabi owners in 2008.
7271
In the end, the committee decided to buck the White House .
'I’m pro-diplomacy...but I have also been strongly pro the need for congressional approval,' he posited.
7272
Villar (right) plays the part of a young Pacquiao as he rises from humble beginnings to a boxing career .
7273
A fireman helps the little girl who has fallen between the metal bars and become trapped by her neck .
‘Nice people are still around,’ commented online user ‘Baby Lexuan’.
7274
England call-up hurt the form of Harry Kane, according to his Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino .
It is normal and this happened at Southampton too.
7275
Three defeats inflicted on Rangers.
‘We aren’t getting carried away and I am sure there will be one or two ups and downs towards the end of the season.
7276
Talking about his early love for F1, he added: 'When I was a kid it was the classic thing where you see the cars on television.
7277
Giroux is reported to be a member of the Hammerskin Nation, a notoriously violent racist skinhead group connected with the Aryan Brotherhood.
7278
If Guz isn't playing well then Shay will be back in the team.
'He understands that Shay has earned the right to play in these games and that Shay has earned the right to stay in the team for the Cup final.
7279
Israelis and soldiers attend a ceremony marking the annual Holocaust remembrance day in the Martyr's forest near Moshav Kesalon, in central Israel .
7280
ESPN reports Jackson, who attended the auction, bought the letters 'on a lark.'
In addition to the letters, Sotheby's was auctioning off a New York Mets bullpen car from the late 60s.
7281
German foreign ministry cables sent on July 15, cited an incident from the day before when a Ukrainian air force plane was shot down at around 20,000 feet over rebel-held territory.
7282
He is very important to me.
Vieira is best remembered for the nine years he spent at Arsenal .
The relationship with the players is so important.
7283
Barton admits he had debts of £100,000 on 15 credit cards and store cards trying to make it as a celeb .
Two nose jobs have cost £10,400, although one was free on the NHS.
7284
Raya Was Here said that feeling beautiful is a decision every woman should make for herself .
The One Beautiful Thought campaign is  another of Dove's efforts to champion 'real' beauty.
7285
The former mining town of Garnet in Montana was deserted after a fire in 1912.
Garnet has no electricity, so the new workers might be in for a fright .
7286
The Obamas abruptly left the White House for an unscheduled family nature hike on Sunday .
The 50-minute trek concluded as a light drizzle began.
7287
'We now know that [Bubba Yum Yum] will be released by the end of the month,' Evans posted on his Facebook on Thursday afternoon.
.
7288
He took his new name after leaving prison and has married.
After they were exonerated, the trio said that they had missed out on much of life, such as having children.
7289
Paula Dunican spent £25 on the baby blue coat at her local branch in Canterbury, Kent.
Terri Powis, 33, was horrified when she opened the bag and found the rodent's decomposing body.
7290
He has bulked up and is now an animal and hopefully Spurs and England can benefit from that.
'I have always said to people that he is the best finisher I have ever played with.
7291
Clinton's State Department infamously declined to provide her Benghazi outpost with the beefed-up security presence its station chief requested in the weeks preceding the deadly Ansar al-Shariah attacks.
7292
This April 1865 image provided by the Library of Congress shows Federal troops in front of the Appomattox Court House near the time of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee's surrender .
7293
Dematteis was arrested and charged with assault following the incident, according to the New York Daily News.
7294
Sam Burgess’s heavily-scrutinised conversion to rugby union will take an intriguing twist on Friday night, when he starts at blindside flanker for Bath against Newcastle at Kingston Park.
7295
She admitted that it has not always easy integrating him into her existing family, but she said it was worth it.
After 16 years Davion was finally home.
7296
Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience' - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt.
7297
Dog walkers have been warned about deliberate attempts to kill their animals after cocktail sausages laced with poison were found at a popular walking spot.
7298
Alafu told Ms Pekin a party was taking place a nearby villa, and the pair agreed to go to it together.
'I think Bali is a lawless country,' Ms Pekin said.
7299
She revealed that he wanted to return to Mount Everest following the devastation of the avalanche last year - when 16 people were killed.
7300
Nikki Kelly believed she was suffering from period cramps - before giving birth to son James, now three months, in 'three pushes' on the bathroom floor .
7301
Oldfield shared with Daily Mail Australia a picture of her stomach when she removed bandages after the surgery .
'It's not a pretty picture,' she said.
7302
Together with Nasa astronaut Terry Virts she captured the spacecraft.
It will remain at the ISS for a month before returning to Earth .
7303
Mr Carey was told he may never walk again after being injured, but he recovered to return to the jump this year .
He said: 'The recovery process was insane.
7304
Pacquiao took to Instagram to show off his ripped torso ahead of his fight against Floyd Mayweather .
Pacquiao said on Twitter: 'Only 18 more days until the blessed event.
7305
No injuries were reported from the first, which was near a shrine.
Mr Ghani added that Islamic State was starting to establish a presence in Afghanistan.
7306
Pensioner Ernest Goult arrives at court, where he will stand trial for allegedly making a racist gesture .
7307
A baseball fan has been taken to hospital on a stretcher after being hit in the head by a foul ball behind home plate.
Her condition is currently unknown.
7308
The couple died in 2007 and 2008 respectively, believing their only daughter was working in a bank in Switzerland.
Graham was jailed for life  for killing Ms Brown.
7309
Claudetteia Love (pictured), 17, was told by her school principal that she was not allowed to wear a tuxedo to her senior prom.
Inspired:
7310
People crowd the dance floor at a jive dance class during the retro-themed festivities .
A woman dances at the Viva Las Vegas Rockabilly Weekend -
7311
'Because pregnancy is a unique biological model of a partially shared blood system, we have speculated that pregnancy would have a rejuvenating effect on the mother.'
7312
She said her child deserved the trip because of alleged bullying at the school.
Locals claimed they were tricked into taking part and encouraged to drink alcohol and fight on camera by the film crew.
7313
In her prepared remarks Thursday in Washington, Mrs Clooney said she will not rest until Nasheed walks free, reported the India's Focus News.
7314
After a week of campaigning online, the Casino teenager is nearly there with less than a day to go .
Messages of support have also flooded social media for the Casino teenager.
7315
Patrick de Koster, who has confirmed that he held talks with Manchester City earlier this season, admits that he could receive 20 phone calls a day about the Belgium international as clubs prepare to strengthen their squads before the start of next season.
7316
Caching the video, animal rights group PETA launched a manhunt to track Eaves down.
'Animal abuse is a community concern.
Thank you, . John & Angel Eaves .
7317
Brazil centre back David Luiz has been sidelined with a hamstring problem, but has been included in the squad for Wednesday's match.
7318
To be eligible for the jam's grand prize, the team have to showcase more screenshots by April 27, followed by video footage the week after.
7319
Ask yourself: "Do you want the relationship to carry on?"
If you want to leave your girlfriend, leave her, but don't hurt her more by telling her.'
Should I tell her?'
7320
Prosecutor John Ojakovoh said Starrs offered a ‘blank cheque’ at sentencing and has already paid back the £28,000 he stole.
The company pays out around £1million in fines in London alone every year.
7321
Yervand Garginian, a 60-year-old bus driver from South Croydon in Melbourne, filmed himself cooking chicken on an open charcoal barbecue using a traditional 'khorovats' recipe at a recent family gathering.
7322
Stancil, pictured in court on Tuesday, is awaiting extradition back to North Carolina, where he is accused of fatally shooting 44-year-old Ron Lane, a print shop director at Wayne Community College .
7323
There was no special treatment for Lewis Ferguson at Paul Nicholls’s yard on Thursday morning.
It’s about the most impressive fall I’ve seen.
7324
'Only Birmingham City and three points on Saturday.
Relegation rivals Millwall will look to build on Tuesday night's home win against Wigan with victory at Cardiff.
7325
Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli (centre) has been the subject of thousands of racists posts on social media .
'I think one message is one too many to be honest.
7326
Curry has led the Golden State Warriors to the top of the Western Conference standings in the regular NBA season with his immaculate three-point shooting.
7327
The student is keeping her distance from Lone Hill Middle School in San Dimas, California .
Indeed, the poster appears to have been spurred on by local news reports.
7328
In February, Miss Mustafa, whose Twitter biography says she is ‘queer, anti-racist feminist killjoy’, also organised a 'BME ONLY social’ before showing the film Dear White People.
7329
The 28-year-old was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died .
'He was a very popular player among his peers,' football manager Matt Lavin told AAP.
7330
I’ve discovered that these kinds of scenes are being played out in children’s bedrooms across the country.
these ‘hot-or-not’ videos should hardly surprise us.
7331
He said he will not take the kid to the vet to remove the two extra legs.
Mr Xiao said the goat is growing quickly and has become one of the most playful animals on the farm .
7332
'He was the most beautiful boy - he really loved his family - he would walk in and say "I love you Mother Duck" and give me a big hug and kiss,' she said.
7333
This is a group of people who lived on both sides of the Bering Strait and used advanced skin boats.
He said that some of the walrus ivory may have come from the Bering Strait.
7334
Manchester City lost to Chelsea in an FA Youth Cup final first leg and are looking for young English players .
7335
The bodyguard escaped from prison and went into hiding, but claimed that he fled to Britain after Taliban fighters tried to track him down.
7336
Cook had to remind the leader of his attack that England had more than 400 to play with and needed to attack so the captain got his way, even though Anderson looked grumpy about it.
7337
He was given a small sample to try which Smith then ordered.
But when baffled staff probed their CCTV, they found her standing over the small girl and plucking two hairs from her head.
7338
Over months he made sure she ate as much as she could everyday, splashing out on meals for Yan almost every day.
You has now promised to feed her even more once they are married.
7339
All clean: The paint came off relatively easily, but police are still trying to find the person responsible .
7340
Iyanna Mayweather has been spending time in her father Floyd's training camp .
it's just another fight in my opinion.'
My dad is my best friend.'
7341
It is also likely to say lunch and break times are being used for 'coaching and cramming', depriving youngsters of their 'fundamental human right to play' with their classmates.
7342
‘Today’s decision has removed the final legal hurdle for me to take up my role on the board following the overwhelming mandate at the EGM.
7343
Miss Shillinglaw also confirmed Clarkson's final Top Gear scenes will be screened later this year and she was not thinking of his replacement ‘in terms of gender’.
7344
As his battle bus approached the destination, one of his police bodyguards made plain his feelings by being spectacularly sick, poor soul.
7345
The cost of electricals, such as toasters and kettles, have dropped by 5.7 per cent in the last 12 months .
Electrical goods have dropped 5.7 per cent.
7346
On the right,  Professor Lerner tests for sewage pollution in a stream in Sheffield, UK, using a conductivity and temperature meter - a more expensive but less effective method than using tampons and UV lighting .
7347
December 1958: First Test as Australia captain, v England at Brisbane .
Tributes were laid for the former  broadcaster in Sydney as the cricket world mourned his loss .
7348
An uninspired campaign has seen the Yorkshire side firmly entrenched in mid-table mediocrity in League One.
And so it proved as the two sides played out a goalless draw at the Keepmoat Stadium.
7349
The Chelsea manager condemned the Burnley forward for a 'criminal challenge' on Nemanja Matic at Stamford Bridge in February when he escaped unpunished and Matic was sent off for retaliation.
7350
They expressed the desire for their captors to remain in jail.
The hero: Ed Ray Jr. the school bus driver was hailed as a hero for helping 26 students escape after three men kidnapped the group died in 2012 .
7351
Richard Wilkins pieced together a story for the Today Show on the Nine Network about his grandfather George's time at Gallipoli on the eve of centenary ANZAC Day commemorations .
7352
Deputy Chief of Police Mike Carter played the video at a news conference on Tuesday, Tulsa World reported.
Deputy chief Carter added: 'Mr Allen is a victim.
7353
After his conviction, Oxford University Hospitals Trust said it was first made aware of any alleged sexual misconduct when contacted by police in 2014.
7354
Marc-Andre ter Stegen (middle) is eager to impress Barcelona boss Luis Enrique in the Champions League .
I'm happy with this situation; it's fine for me.
7355
In particular, it cited 'alarming reports especially from Western Europe and North America'.
Britain registered 141 violent incidents against Jews in 2014, after 95 a year earlier.
7356
Rumoured to be dating pop star Taylor Swift, 25, he has debuted at number 30 with a fortune of £70million – joint with Mark Knopfler, 65, of Dire Strait’s and The Who’s Pete Townshend, 69.
7357
Both pilots involved in the crash were students.
MFB Commander Paul Foster said both planes were severely damaged, according to the ABC.
7358
Sherwood shows his angst with just minutes to go as the home side rallied but failed to find the winner which would ease their relegation fears .
7359
It has since emerged that Mr Lubitz had carefully planned the attack using the online pseudonym ‘Skydevil’, according to the German newspaper Bild.
7360
Some of the guards were found to have posted on their Facebook accounts promoting the controversial Reclaim Australia rallies – which were held around the country on April 4 to protest against Islamisation and the influence of 'minorities' and 'radical extremism' in Australia.
7361
Cristiano Ronaldo only needed 288 games to score 300 goals for Real Madrid and he has been presented with a special shirt to mark his achievements  by club president Florentino Perez.
7362
Harper Lee was not manipulated into publishing her sequel to To Kill a Mockingbird, and is not an elder abuse victim, according to an official probe.
7363
Silicani provided the supposed hit man with the names and address of his parents and said he didn't want to pay more than $100,000 for the 'demolition work.'
7364
'When I realised she took offence by that I just sort of immediately went back, gave her some wine, apologised and said I was terribly sorry,' he said according to Stuff.co.nz.
7365
When Daniel Messel arrived back home, he was arrested by police, he said.
Friends held multiple vigils for the beloved student over the weekend.
7366
The German student, from Eastbourne, died of smoke inhalation, according to police.
Police and forensic officers at the scene after her body was discovered on March 13 .
7367
Woods could pose a threat to McIlroy at the Masters after confirming that he will play at Augusta .
‘Rory will be an absolute superstar when he wins the Masters.
7368
Mr Denamur, who starred in République de Malbouffe (Republic of Junk Food), a documentary investigating the state of French food said he had been 'bitterly disappointed' by the label.
7369
‘I can’t say I’m happy to be there now, I want to do more and more.’
The manager Marc Wilmots said, “If you want, you can come with the lads.”
I was a fan of Arsenal.’
7370
Sterling is quite within his rights to get the best possible deal he can for himself, according to Roy Keane .
United’s captain scoffed at the idea that loyalty really existed in football.
7371
In her ruling, the judge said the divorce had 'a tragically long history' and had run up 'mammoth' legal costs.
'I found the husband to be a charming rogue.
7372
So I shall read through all the manifestos before making a decision.’
But Pougatch failed to make it to the University of Liverpool for the show, having been stuck on the M6.
7373
Toby Huntington-Whiteley, 25, stars in the new summer advert for men's clothing brand Jacamo .
7374
According to court documents, league officials say they made a mistake placing the Stefanoni's son on a higher-level team, after the housing application was filed, and corrected the error by moving him to another team.
7375
He added when the team disabled the antibodies' ability to bind to the tumours, or the dendritic cells' ability to ingest the tumours, the T-cells failed to eradicate the cancer.
7376
In the invasion of Iraq by a US-led coalition, the military developed a set of playing cards to help troops identify the most-wanted members of Saddam's regime.
7377
In an election research note, Morgan Stanley said that a Labour-led government reliant on the ‘anti-austerity and separatist SNP’ would lead investors to predict a ‘substantially looser fiscal policy’.
7378
With a new baby, it’s just about eating well for her, because everything I eat goes right into her system.
Trina Turk Jeanna Dress at Zappos .
7379
Southampton fans are planning to show their support for Koeman's achievements by wearing orange .
Local pubs, bars and restaurants have got behind the campaign.
7380
The gap between wage rises for young and older staff has widened significantly during the past five years, amid claims the over-50s are being left behind, official figures reveal.
7381
He said: 'Lancashire is a huge county with a fine history in the game and I am looking forward to joining the squad next month.
7382
'Here' was Child Protective Services, Rafi said.
In March, Danielle Meitiv told the Washington Post they were planning to appeal the decision.
7383
Birkin had been discussing her difficulty in finding a leather weekend bag, explaining her ideal.
Shortly after, in 1984, the bag she described arrived at her flat with a note from Dumas.
7384
The idea came after a Chinese designer unveiled an extraordinary set of underwear made entirely of gold last year.
7385
Derby occupy the final play-off place in the Championship, although Friday’s 2-2 draw against Watford was their seventh game in a row without a win.
7386
They created the list in an effort to avoid wallowing in the sadness of the shocking situation.
18. Be dazzled by the Vivid Light Festival .
7387
But the defender is almost certain that he wants to return to the Premier League ahead of next season.
He tried, and failed, to sign him on loan in January.
7388
Putin said he raised the issue with then-US President George W. Bush, who promised to 'kick the ass' of the intelligence officers in question.
7389
England are awarded a penalty during their European U19 Women's Championships qualifier on Saturday .
However, Wiliiamson's penalty was disallowed and the match ended in defeat.
7390
The 16-year-old had a popular YouTube channel in which she discussed her struggles and the bullying she faced .
Her family is not releasing the details of her death.
7391
For his own part, Cook is in need of a successful series both as captain and run-scorer.
'It's always important we win.
7392
Mr Schofield moved to Hobart to set up a Baroque music festival in what he claims was an attempt to help Tasmanians take advantage of its grand heritage.
7393
Dr Simon Fishel, chief executive of CARE Fertility, says: 'Even though men keep producing sperm, the decline in sperm DNA with age is now uncontroversial, with potentially devastating effects on the offspring of older men.
7394
The main problem yesterday was the strength of the wind.’
Some 50 wildlife volunteers spent today rescuing reptiles that survived by burrowing into deep ground.
7395
One juvenile pushed over a tree, just for fun, it seemed.
Sigiriya is an ancient palace located in the central Matale District near the town of Dambulla in the Central Province.
7396
'It feels really, like, exciting and I feel pretty cool right now for winning it because it’s a really hard thing to do,' Sam told ABC News.
7397
The so-called 'The Nation's Fist' not only wrote the song 'Lalaban Ako Para Sa Filipino' but also sang and directed the music video before releasing it on his Facebook page on Monday.
7398
'Physically they do not show they have been involved for nine months in this competition; it is the opposite as they are getting used to the demands of the Premier League and they look a strong team physically.
7399
Every inch of The Wonderland House is creatively designed to reflect the fantastical story.
She said: 'I have always been mad about the story and it was my favourite Disney film.'
7400
They have long claimed to be the only genuine political party – fighting the manipulated PR of the main Westminster parties.
7401
Defence sources said it was ‘routine’ and Russian officers had last made similar official visits last year.
7402
For Tony Pulis, this was a bad day.
Pulis replaced Chris Baird with Jonas Olsson and changed to a 3-4-3 formation, instigating an Albion surge.
7403
Caroline Wozniacki was spotted taking in a game of basketball in Indiana on Monday alongside NFL star J.J. Watt.
7404
Last year, the MoD gave a total of £81.9million in compensation to members of the Armed Forces for injury, death and property damage by the MoD, according to the Daily Mirror.
7405
Because of the effect of the immune system, advanced and aggressive prostate cancer does not typically respond to chemotherapy, researchers said.
7406
A Pennsylvania couple have been killed after their 1923 Model T Ford convertible skidded off the roadway and flipped over.
7407
Rutter told the Daily Mail Online that no one will be allowed back into the building until an engineering firm is able to check its stability.
7408
Now these ‘pro-anorexia’ sites will face a year in prison and a fine equivalent to just over £7,000.
And Brazil is considering demands to ban underage, underweight models from its catwalks.
7409
The carcasses of more than 50 greyhounds were found at the bush site in Coonarr on Tuesday .
So far, five people have been charged with a total of 23 offences in the state.
7410
Pictured Maroubra in Sydney's east .
State Emergency Services issued cautions and advice to residents affected by the storm on their social media pages .
7411
Glenn Roeder is now part of a new managerial committee team at Championship side Sheffield Wednesday .
Pearson said: 'I hope my experience is of great benefit.
7412
Mr Phipps said that the test was not anchored to a personality type, but rather different work styles .
What would you do?'
What do you do?'
7413
4/5 .
Silent Night Febreze Pillow, £9.99, argos.co.uk .
A winner for anyone aged 13-19 and for parents who are desperate for peace and quiet!
7414
Deborah Kane, from  Manchester (pictured), had her right eye removed three years ago in a life-saving nine-hour operation to stop her skin cancer spreading to her brain .
7415
Wenger believes the way Sanchez has adapted so quickly to a change in environment proves he is one of the best around.
'He has done very well.
7416
At the start of the ascent, the film shows the city as an expanse of wild vegetation and marshes before it was settled by the Dutch in the 1600s.
7417
Strauss is widely respected by the England team and management but would be far more comfortable in a suit with distance between him and the players rather than in a tracksuit at the heart of the dressing room.
REASON IT MIGHT HAPPEN:
7418
That shooting came just 10 days after Torres, responding to a report of a suicidal man, shot 66-year-old Terry Knight, who was armed with two knives.
7419
The building reportedly collapsed at 8.30am.
Friday was a company holiday for GE and there were no employees inside the building, according to local media .
7420
Ms Knapton has been left with deep wounds to her shoulder, neck, nose and mouth following the attack .
The glass bottle even became embedded in her neck.
7421
The piste patrol could not go down the cliff.
Unfortunately and sadly they confirmed that his body was found off piste in an area of the resort called Aujon.
7422
Spooky find:
Mr Selby said: 'I was shocked when I found it.
I looked on the internet for other funny-shaped crisps but this is a one-off.'
7423
Manchester City have decided to listen to offers for Ivorian midfielder Yaya Toure this summer .
Toure will be made available before his value in the market dwindles.
7424
Bailey Murrill, of Denton in Texas, had been inexplicably paralyzed for 11 days and was being cared for in hospital.
7425
A woman in Kentucky posted photos online of hail the size of baseballs on Wednesday .
The blockage came after the storm on Tuesday causing the area around the bridge to flood .
7426
Former AC Milan star Clarence Seedorf in action during the clash at the Stade Geoffroy-Guichard on Tuesday .
7427
Pictured Maroubra in Sydney's east .
State Emergency Services issued cautions and advice to residents affected by the storm on their social media pages .
7428
Olivier Giroud believes the Premier League is Chelsea's this season but Arsenal will contend next season .
‘There is a table that speaks for them.
7429
Many point towards Zaha’s troubling spell in the north-west as serving only to curb his development, and Pardew believes last week’s announcement of post-tax profits of £17m means Bolasie will stay in south London when clubs inevitably come knocking this summer.
7430
However, fewer than five per cent of pigs in the US are raised in a way that meets Chipotle's standards, according to CBS.
7431
The mickey-taking video has already been watching more than 3.7million times on Facebook in just a day.
Plenty of Twitter users have been quick to ridicule the craze.
7432
A New Delhi driver was accused of raping a passenger in December.
This week in Denver, a driver tried and failed to break into a passenger's home.
7433
She also tweeted earlier today, saying: 'We're blaming the cocktails.'
The Labour leader was surrounded after his campaign bus parked up outside Westminster Hotel in Chester .
7434
Mr Katter used federal MPs Tony Windsor and Rob Oakeshott as examples of independents becoming puppets for the government and sacrificing their independence, but he vowed Mr Gordon would not make that mistake.
7435
He found the greenside bunker with his second shot, and then made a poor shot out from a difficult lie, claiming something had distracted him during his backswing.
7436
This makes Mark Vanhoenacker’s book, unwittingly, very timely indeed.
But Sutter (now in his mid-90s) once stated that the 747 is more ‘a place’ than a conveyance.
7437
Paladini has been searching for a way back into football since he left Loftus Road in 2011 and has attempted to buy Birmingham City from Carson Yeung.
7438
Inter Milan boss Roberto Mancini wants to be reunited with Toure next season after managing him at City .
All the supporters like him, he's helped them make history.'
7439
Flashback:
As a result of the weight gain, Mr Tempest-Mitchell almost became housebound at his heaviest and was forced to plan every trip out.
7440
Rating: .
Lakeland Mini Ice Cream Maker, £19.99, lakeland.co.uk .
The removable bowl-shaped base also fits neatly in to my packed freezer.
.
7441
Fossils from an extinct pygmy sperm whale that died seven million years ago have shed new light on the evolution of modern day whales.
The find will help experts fill in gaps in the evolution of cetaceans.
7442
The diagnosis was pesticide poisoning.
He has two daughters.
'Her father was killed when a fire ripped through the cotton factory where he works.
7443
Tonight his focus will be on Barcelona.
Cavani will come up against Luis Suarez, who was born in the same town, in the first leg in Paris .
7444
He had earlier been successful with Pretend (Buick) in the Unibet Sprint Championship Stakes and Four Seasons (Adam Kirby) in the 32Red Three-Year-old Mile Championship.
7445
In terms of activity, the study found that trolls make more comments each day, and post more times on each thread.
7446
The phones are also designed to help people apply for jobs and find housing, as companies often require people to visit their websites.
7447
Wenger said: 'Anyway, you always have your team in your head, for the whole week.
You never go to bed without thinking about what the next line-up will be.
7448
When Khan and Bosson finish victorious, Rodley cannot contain himself, erupting into fist-pumping celebrations and bolting off camera.
7449
The winning duo - announced next Monday - will tie the knot at Elvis Presley's Graceland Wedding Chapel inside the Westgate Hotel on Thursday, April 23.
7450
Newsnight’s Diplomatic Editor, Mark Urban said he had been told the inquiry will be delayed until at least 2016.
7451
Mesut Ozil pictured during Arsenal's training session ahead of their match with Reading on Saturday .
Wenger has branded the 'circus' around Jurgen Klopp's resignation as 'ridiculous'
7452
NSW Police also shared the image with the caption 'The heat is on', leading many to question what the car owner's offence actually was.
7453
Footage shows her then sucking on it before closing her eyes and loudly snoring in her sleep.
Together, the canines have starred in numerous videos via Facebook and YouTube.
7454
Andrea Yates' ex-husband has condemned the criminal process the killer was put through 14 years after she drowned their five children in the bathtub of their suburban Texas home.
7455
It's something I wanted again but I didn't know if things would go my way again and I'd have this opportunity.
'The guys have been really good.
7456
Murray reacts after winning the final point before shaking hands with Berdych as he heads into the final .
I’m quite pleased with the way I have handled the emotions in both these matches.
7457
Above, a map shows where Russian traders set up fur trading business in Alaska, and their possible farming settlement near Molalla Oregon .
7458
NEWCASTLE:
Big crowds were also seen in other cities, including in Edinburgh for the Hogmanay street party attended by some 80,000 people.
7459
This evening Grealish will attend his nephew’s school cup final and present an award, bringing a pair of signed boots, too.
His next objective is to score.
7460
The case mirrors that of Armin Meiwes, a man found guilty of killing, dismembering and eating computer technician Bernd Brandes at his remote farmhouse home near Kassel.
7461
Caught on CCTV: One of the raiders.
The gang spent weeks digging a tunnel from a rented parking space to reach the walls of the underground vault.
7462
A dramatic race saw Balder Succes fall at the third fence and Sire De Grugy come down at the sixth.
It will be the Gold Cup next season.’
7463
The group, believed to be from Syria, were arrested on the M20 motorway near Folkestone, Kent, on suspicion of illegal entry into Britain after they were seen riding on top of the vehicle by a fellow driver.
7464
Pacquiao has made a remarkable rise through the weight divisions from being an incredibly slight light-flyweight when he made his debut .
7465
Helal Abbas, 55, lost his bid to become the mayor of Tower Hamlets in East London days after the claim appeared in an ethnic freesheet.
7466
Mrs Barnett worked at Archway School, where she was known as Miss Shonk, as an art teacher before being promoted head of the department.
7467
Scientists analysed 57 species in the region and found that the majority of populations had diminished as a result of the nuclear accident.
7468
Crowder was arrested on charges of battery on a law-enforcement officer, resisting with violence, and assault with a deadly weapon on a law-enforcement officer .
7469
Simeone's Atleti side host rivals Real Madrid in their Champions League quarter-final first leg on Tuesday .
But Bale is at 100 per cent.'
7470
Victoria Beckham did it.
Blogger Hass Murad and his cousin Kass Chee at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Australia  on Wednesday .
Mini hipster!
7471
Police have now discovered his body .
They released a statement after they heard his body had been found.
'Death will not rob us of that.
7472
The couple sold the house in September 2012 for £925,000 but, following Copeland’s guilty plea, are now facing having to pay back any profit they have made via the Proceeds of Crime Act.
7473
The tragic killing of Chloe sparked a national outpouring of grief in France after her body was discovered in a migrant camp last week.
7474
Kadeem Brown, 25, can be seen sliding across the ice after being knocked over by a passing taxi .
Gone too soon: Kadeem Brown, 25, was killed .
7475
The results revealed that at least six per cent (400 out of the 6588 participants) learnt 'many of their matches' from the Fisher-Price set.
7476
Inverness Cup hero Gary Warren has called for a change to the 'ridiculous' rule that will see him banned from a second final in successive seasons.
7477
'If companies don't know how and where their products are made, then there's no way for them to ensure that their workers are protected.'
7478
Gerrard will patrol the middle of midfield to mark his 36th - and potentially final - game at Wembley .
Gerrard's first taste of FA Cup glory came in 2001 when Liverpool beat Arsenal 2-1 .
7479
Sheriff McKeithen said the video of the attack showed hundreds of spring break revelers impassively looking on as the unconscious teenage girl was being raped by a group of men, CBS News reported.
7480
'At least this time Peter was able to be by my side rather than delivering his son himself.'
'Peter was an absolute saint and so calm for me.
7481
His intervention today will pile pressure on the Labour leader ahead of tonight’s TV ‘challengers’ debate’, in which he will square up to SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon.
7482
Real Madrid superstar Cristiano Ronaldo is the current holder of the trophy which is voted for by national team managers and captains.
'The individual is welcome if you want to make our group better.
7483
Frank McLintock was a Scottish centre-half who joined Arsenal for a club record £80,000 in October 1964.
In all, he played 403 matches for the club, scoring 32 goals.
7484
Machida never put up much of a fight in his brief stint in the cage.
Jacare Souza, the No 1 ranked middleweight, made short work of Chris Camozzi in the co-main event.
7485
Oliver-Christie, who today wore a black leather jacket and bright pink trainers, was jailed for 15 months at the same court in August 2012 for ‘turning a blind eye’ to drug dealing at his home.
7486
'He said: 'Girl's say: 'No', but they don't mean it.'
When questioned by police the architect said his date did not object to being touched intimately by him.
7487
Societies with less access to food and water are more likely to believe in an all-powerful deity, according to new research.
7488
Scientists found the rate by taking radar, laser and satellite measurements of the glaciers' mass between 1992 and 2013.
7489
The charity is calling for volunteers to join its research vessel Silurian to help conduct visual surveys and acoustic monitoring and identification of cetaceans.
7490
Sentencing Judge John Warner said the boy had been 'running wild' in his home life.
Judge Warner added while Kurti had boasted of the attack afterwards, he demonstrated 'criminal maturity'.
7491
Robert and Dori Wickert look at a prototype combat vehicle during the PrepperCon expo on Friday .
Above, the actress told KUTV that she thought the expo was 'really cool'
7492
'That weight is not going to go back on.'
'I do exercise but it's more a case of watching what I eat,' said Lisa.
Medical conditions and obesity run in the family.
7493
Once they finished, the couple drove their truck home out to a lot they'd purchased in Nelson, New Zealand.
Alex said their first power bill was just $25.
7494
The bridal party (pictured, with Jasper and Jasmine in the centre) will also be dressed to impress at the extravagant event .
A pug bridal party will also be dressed to impress at the extravagant event.
7495
'It's not a problem.
'We will have an hour to 'switch' the head to a different body.
He admitted that attaching the head was only the start.
7496
The FDA has ruled that KIND bars are not as kind on the body as they purport to be .
'KIND bars are candy bars making health claims, and thereby marketing them as healthy snacks,'  Nestle said.
7497
Cardiff Council have begun removing the posters, dubbed 'chilling' and 'threatening' by locals.
'Islam is the only real, working solution for the UK.
7498
As the country's drugs crisis reaches epidemic levels, its markets pull in anyone looking to get high.
He writes about super heroes and dreams of becoming one .
7499
Mr Lipo said the findings may help dismantle the traditional story line of Easter Island, or Rapa Nui, that a 'crazed maniacal group destroyed their environment,' by cutting down trees to transport gigantic statues.
7500
They then confronted Brazilian worker Christina Periera, but Mr Badland became angry when she told them she would have to reprogramme the key in order to open their door.
7501
The partnership between the platinum award-winning artist and the UK's number 1 dry shampoo brand was fused together by the MILES agency.
7502
Attack: Police are hunting the owner of a 'Staffy-type' dog after a four-year-old girl suffered bite wounds to the face (file picture)
7503
Residents of Delhi’s Turkman Gate, where 40-year-old Shahnawaz was thrashed to death on Sunday night, allege that main accused Khalid Amin alias Amin Pahalwan belongs to a family of goons, and all his 17 brothers are involved in illegal activities.
7504
Alvarez writes that she needs a union to help negotiate sick days, which she said she is currently not provided with, costing her a day's worth of wages when she has to stay home if her son is ill.
7505
Giving his recollection on the aftermath of the crash, Mr Prince told the jury panel he did not witness the moment of impact but had seen a cloud of dust.
7506
Bold stand:
'This is something I have never given a thought before, but I wouldn't mind if somebody somewehere (sic) wanted to donate'.
7507
Cousins had been on bail and was supposed to appear in Fremantle Magistrates Court on Wednesday morning but he failed to show up .
7508
Thousands of people have signed a petition calling for a controversial weight loss advertisement to be pulled, as Katie Hopkins slammed those complaining about the posters as 'chubsters'.
7509
In the early days of his time at Chelsea, it looked as though City may have been right.
He is, though, arguably a better player for Mourinho's influence.
7510
The gunmen came around looking for Christians.
Pictured: Migrants are transferred to holding centres after landing in Augusta's port, near Siracusa, Sicily .
7511
Patrick says he has since made a 'fantastic recovery.'
'When my family is healed I will be healed,' Patrick Lyttle told the court.
7512
Not a single Labour candidate questioned by a major polling company mentioned the deficit as being one of the biggest issues facing Britain.
7513
According to the patent, the inflatable pillow is 'not a highly successful option due to the natural tendency of a sleeper to relax their muscles and fall to a more horizontal point.'
7514
'I use homeopathy myself - most commonly Nux Vom, which I take when I get indigestion - and I do suggest the remedies to some of my patients.
7515
Spieth missed.
A performance as breathtaking as Tiger Woods’s arrival in 1997.
Against that, it will be a lot harder to chase Spieth’s total than just maintain it.
7516
His admission of guilt follows a plea deal that fell through on Thursday after he refused to admit to the 2011 crime which he said makes him look like an evil, horrible person.
7517
Inter are also working on new deals for their Argentina forward Mauro Icardi and Croatia midfielder Mateo Kovacic.
'We need to understand what he wants.
7518
Mustafa Kamal's resignation as International Cricket Council president has been accepted, it was confirmed after the governing body's quarterly meeting.
7519
The interior of the building has been left to decay so badly, with windows and roofing blown out, it would be too expensive to restore it .
7520
And crucially, she said the offer stood ‘regardless of who is the biggest party’ in the House of Commons.
Her comments heaped pressure on Labour to rule out any deal with the nationalists.
7521
Sheriff McKeithen said the video of the attack showed hundreds of spring break revelers impassively looking on as the unconscious teenage girl was being raped by a group of men, CBS News reported.
7522
Clarkson pulled out of his planned appearance hosting BBC satirical show Have I Got News For You, which was due to be filmed next week, and aired a day later.
7523
Most of the US has laws that ban drivers from texting while at the wheel to prevent accidents .
A study last year found sending a text message delays reaction times by 37 per cent.
7524
It’s a problem with Mane, but the rules in the team are more important.
A rainbow forms over the St Mary's pitch as the sun shines and the rain beats down during half-time .
7525
The 10-time winner of the Ladies' World Championship saw her Crucible dream ended by Ken Doherty after a tight clash on Thursday.
No special rules.
7526
Dr Welby told his congregation that the killing of Christians over the past year had been a ‘wicked’ development. ‘
To witness is to be a martyr,’ he said.
7527
The project gave her a deeper understanding of family and herself, and she learned to accept and love them wholeheartedly, she said .
7528
Spahic later seemed to aim a headbutt at a member of stadium staff, even after the angry clash had died down .
 Spahic will issue an apology for his behaviour.
7529
The disturbing image was uploaded to Facebook Friday using a cellphone that had been sneaked into the jail.
He could've just been gone,' said Wright.
7530
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg claimed Nigel Farage's 'mask is slipping' to reveal a man uncomfortable talking about people who are not white 'lashing out' in a scrabble for headlines .
7531
The idea is not one Lahm, who is contracted at the club until 2018, rejects but he is still focused on attaining more titles with as a player, starting Wednesday at Porto.
7532
In a letter to Mr Priestley, the North East Ambulance NHS Foundation Trust said the first operator failed to enter details about his wife's deathly colour into the system - meaning a 30 minute response priority was activated rather than eight minutes.
7533
'Shameless liar' Andrew O'Clee, 36, wed Michelle Agbulos – and later tied the knot again with another woman.
The post led her to photos of his second wedding, which she reported to police.
7534
News of the shocking murder comes as it emerged that armed forces battling against ISIS over the border in Iraq will finally receive the first batch of F-16 fighter jets it ordered four years ago.
7535
But this stomach-churning clip of a longboarder crashing downhill at high speed certainly serves as a warning to wear a helmet.
Gone!
Bloody:
7536
The incident occurred at the 91st floor of the 101-storey Shanghai World Financial Centre, the city’s second-tallest building at 492 metres (1,614ft).
7537
Ferguson, 23, only checked in to the club's Murray Park training base on Monday after he was finally given the green light to resume action.
7538
All three were detained, according to the ACLU.
'This settlement sends that critical message, and will help protect future passengers from having to endure what Shoshana went through.'
7539
Cobler said he was withholding the 57-year-old woman's name until all family members had been notified.
He said her SUV was pushed nearly a quarter-mile.
7540
Jimmy Anderson was given a silver cap by Mike Atherton to mark his 100th Test.
Both teams paid their respects to Richie Benaud before the start of play after he died last week .
7541
He also praised the professionalism of police conducting the early morning raids in metropolitan Melbourne.
They had to act as soon as they thought the public were at risk.
7542
Robert Durst has been absolved of state gun charges in Louisiana.
He will now face federal charges, which lawyers believe he can win, before a murder trial in California .
7543
However the founder of the Wikileaks Party, whose son is still seeking refuge in London’s Ecuadorean embassy, managed to secure a buyer for well over his asking price on Wednesday.
7544
He was convicted of murder in 1995 and sentenced to 30 years in prison, but served less than half of that sentence.
7545
Mr Carmody denied he had any sort of relationship with Ms Johnson, and said the meeting was standard practice.
Cowan's sentence includes a non-parole period of 20 years.
7546
'Harry Kane doesn’t need to go back to playing Under-21 football,' said Dalglish in The Mirror.
'Playing Under-21 football this summer won’t help him.
7547
However, plastic surgery - particularly operations such as double eyelid surgery and rhinoplasty - are increasingly popular in China.
7548
The latest social media update comes days after Robson spent time relaxing at country music festival Tortuga.
7549
The man who gave her a ride home that day was never found.
'The witnesses did not realize Ronda’s murder is still an open case.'
7550
However, he missed knocked over coach Mike Jirschele instead.
Last weekend, their clash with Oakland Athletics landed scrappy Ventura with a fine for his actions.
7551
Officials questioned the tourist whose name was on the bag and are satisfied he did not smuggle the cocaine .
7552
The tour will also see him travel to South Africa, Australia and Norway - where shows were cancelled while the BBC was deciding whether or not to sack the presenter.
7553
The away kit is all grey, including the club badge, with a slight yellow trim .
Gareth Bale in action wearing this season's kit, which has darker stripes and a buttoned collar .
7554
Officers said that, as well as the children themselves, some was spent by 'adults, guardians or associates of the children who received the money', according to the Medina Gazette.
7555
They have elevated him from the junior sides and he has a manager who has built a team around him.
He plays every week.
‘Sterling is a good player.
7556
The nanny made her choice and then a butler would bring the meals down to the children.
William and Harry would eat the same food as adults only it would often be diced or pureed.
7557
Tottenham Hotspur vs Aston Villa (3pm)
Queens Park Rangers vs Chelsea (1.30pm) Manchester United vs Manchester City (4pm)
Liverpool vs Newcastle United (8pm)
7558
An overhaul of playing personnel is due, but there has been scant evidence Manuel Pellegrini or director of football Txiki Begiristain are adept at identifying replacements.
7559
Police have said they were looking into whether the attack was related to Sanchez's refusal to be Plaskon's date to their junior prom.
7560
After the ball drops into the net, a group of watching players applaud while others, including Ivan Rakitic and Javier Mascherano, race over to congratulate the 23-year-old left-back.
7561
Cressida recently played Cecily in The Importance of Being Ernest at the London Oratory, where she was watched by ex-boyfriend, Prince Harry .
7562
Rescued:
Neighbour Mr Xie said he could hear cries of pain every night which he initially thought were from a child being punished.
7563
The Grocer commented: 'Posher, younger and with a sweet tooth, loyal shoppers have been successfully pulled in by variety discounters.
7564
Provisional squad: McGregor, Harper, Davies, Dawson, McShane, Robertson, Bruce, Chester, Elmohamady, Livermore, Diame, Meyler, Quinn, Hernandez, Aluko, Ramirez, N'Doye.
7565
Douglas Carswell has refused to endorse Mr Farage's remarks .
Jo Swinson, the Liberal Democrat business minister, said the remarks were ‘breathtakingly appalling’.
7566
Danny Rose was then preferred when Shaw pulled out, only for Bertrand to get the nod once the Tottenham full-back and then Baines dropped out.
7567
Kane got his chance because Tottenham's expensively imported striker Roberto Soldado disappointed.
He would be as well angling for a permanent move to Middlesbrough.
7568
He will also be allowed to spend time off-base, meaning Harry will have plenty of time for handshakes with his fans .
However, the ADF said it has created a very real experience for Prince Harry.
7569
The teen says the prank was all in good fun and simply part of a trend in flashy prom proposals.
'If anyone else did that, I feel like no one else would have gotten in trouble for it.'
7570
Heavily armed:
Police cars surround Milan's Palace of Justice building this morning after a man named locally as Claudio Giardiello opened fire.
7571
'Of course Jesse’s only six years old, so anything over 1,000 to him is incomprehensible, but he could tell by our reaction how this had gone viral.'
7572
All who come share a common desire to experience greater connection in their lives.'
There are currently 2,000 people  practicing the method in the UK, according to Turn On Britain .
7573
She said: 'I read up on the benefits of being vegan.
Yulia, pictured with Paul after giving birth, says her midwife was concerned, especially with her diet.
7574
It was unusually wet by the Mediterranean and the conditions made handling difficult, but that didn’t account for the sheer deluge of fumbles made by both sides.
7575
Nature lover:
 Darlene Feliciano, 27, passed away from her injuries Friday after she plummeted from a hiking trail in Oahu, Hawaii .
Hard worker:
7576
The women's tennis stars wave to the crowd ahead of their games at the clay court tournament in Stuttgart .
7577
Nico Rosberg feels he may have handed Lewis Hamilton a psychological advantage with his post-Chinese Grand Prix outburst.
'It's a thing of the past.
7578
The analysis shows that companies have also performed better under the Tories with profits up by an average of 11 per cent a year under the Conservatives and 6 per cent under Labour.
7579
She died of freshwater drowning the medical examiner's office said in a press release, according to the Star Tribune.
Last seen:
7580
'We can only trust in God for a miracle at this time.
'However, Bobbi Kristina is presently embarking on a rehabilitation process and the quality of her life will not be known for years to come.
7581
Useing a process known as 'natural language generation' (NLG), it has the potential to one day be used in humanoid robots on our TV screens.
7582
Paul the younger has made a name for himself meeting with minority groups – and speaking to all-black audiences – in an attempt to win them over with a message of criminal justice reform .
7583
Francis Coquelin has made 23 appearances for Arsenal this season since ending his loan spell at Charlton .
'What he has done is unbelievable.
7584
Dossena, whose signing was seen as something of a coup for Orient, earned around £40,000-a-week at Anfield.
7585
Ahsan also said the allegations against her client 'had no link' with the nuclear talks, but in a nod to the diplomacy she added: 'I hope this matter will accelerate the liberation of my client.'
7586
Mr Hunt spent two days putting up ‘lost cat’ posters in his area before finding out what had happened from a local teenager.
7587
Zabaleta admits confidence is low with Sunday's derby loss at Manchester United having continued a dismal run which has seen City capitulate in the Barclays Premier League title race.
7588
This is only the second Fashion Week the design powerhouse has missed in two decades.
Perry has just filmed Asia's Next Top Model and plans to work on more TV projects in Asia .
7589
Scottish Tory leader Ruth Davidson said the SNP’s position – urging Scots to vote against Labour and also promising to prop up a Labour government – was illogical.
7590
It comes after the 41-year-old accused her younger former boyfriend of violence online.
The claims of harassment involve alleged text messages and phone calls made to the blonde soap star.
7591
the answer is no.
Mrs Horlick is now campaigning for Just A Drop, which aims to reduce child mortality by delivering clean and safe drinking water.
7592
Pagonis now uses the first name 'Pidgeon', doesn't identify as female or male and works as an intersex activist against surgery.
Pagonis' advice for parents with intersex infants?
7593
The race raises money that goes towards research into over 200 types of cancer affecting both men and women.
Coleen said: 'I am so thrilled to be supporting Cancer Research UK's Race for Life.
7594
More than 50 years on, that same fascination still shines out of every page of Naturalists In Paradise, the compelling story of an earlier trio of young British explorers.
7595
Yet Clarke had been granted a two-page platform in last year’s almanack to explain his ICC strategy.
Mani said: ‘I’m very used to Giles being utterly irrational.
7596
'We fully respect the decision made by the court and Dundee FC will be standing by the player.
He appreciates the support of his club and others.'
7597
Medina Luna said that Cuyun had made his fellow gang members 'vomit blood' at Las Gaviotas.
They have used machetes in many of their attacks and often recruit minors.
7598
Joey Essex, who posed for selfies with excited fans, was attending the event ahead of interviewing all the party leaders for a TV special.
7599
Ms Fernando's 'shocking' suggestion was slammed by the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg today.
Ms Fernando has insisted that her comments were 'taken out of context'.
7600
Rates of sexual offending there are similar to those in the UK.
Interventions might include help with setting boundaries, and improving conflict resolving and social skills, he said.
7601
Hundreds of protesters gathered in New York City on Tuesday night to march against police brutality .
Traffic was halted as more people gained access to the roads .
7602
Frida ended this letter to Jose with a kiss, leaving behind a lipstick print of her mouth .
Frida sketched this drawing of a sleeping cat and sent it to Jose .
7603
Former US president George H.W. Bush looked in good health on Friday as he accompanied Australian tennis player Roy Emerson at the  U.S. Men's Clay Court Championship in Houston, Texas.
7604
The younger Walker could already have passed his tally had he done better than skew wide a glorious chance at Griffin Park.
7605
The video maker said that the Chihuahua never tries to hurt the dragon and loves to chase after him .
I love to watch them.
7606
Maria Sharapova has been confirmed to play for the Russia team in the Fed Cup semi-finals next week .
Andrea Petkovic is part of the Germany Fed Cup team which travels to Sochi next week .
7607
All seven were killed when the plane crashed at about 8.15am today .
The plane was en route to the Samana Peninsula off the north coast with a pilot and six passengers.
7608
O’Clee, who worked for business services provider ISS, claimed he was involved in a fraud trial, which meant he had to leave their rented flat in West London to be placed in a ‘safe house’.
7609
Jan Mlejnek, an analyst, said Zeman's rhetoric was unfortunate and will harm Czech-U.S. relations.
Sobotka said he accepted Zeman's explanation for the trip.
7610
They look set to eclipse arguably the club's greatest front three of Messi, Samuel Eto'o and Thierry Henry who scored 100 goals in the 2008-09 campaign.
7611
The Conservatives, she added, should not be trying to restrict overseas university students at the same time as 'doing nothing' about illegal immigration.
7612
He said they allow children to retain their 'innocence' and be 'themselves' for longer.
To be 'boyish' for longer, to be young girls,' he said, according to the BBC.
7613
The former Navy SEAL who killed Osama bin Laden will host a 'machine gun fun' shooting competition at a conservative fundraising event which costs $50,000 a ticket.
His tongue was out.
7614
The wooden ornament even took a trip on the back of a camel on its travels .
The wooden statue is enjoying some sunnier climes than the usual shelf in Nottingham .
7615
An Olympic-sized, open air pool containing heated, filtered sea water.
There’s also the option of midnight swimming sessions while listening to music.
7616
Tentative loan offers have been proposed and Sampdoria would likely offer a cut price permanent move.
If he came to Sampdoria, he would come back to his usual standards.
7617
Police in Canada have also charged Joanna Flynn, a former nurse at Georgian Bay General Hospital in Ontario, with criminal negligence causing death.
7618
Half a year after it vanished, she saw a Facebook post saying a wedding ring had been found in an 'unusual place'.
She collected the ring on Thursday.
7619
The Madrid defender looked exhausted after play-fighting with his Los Blancos team-mates .
Los Blancos goalkeeper Iker Casillas trains alone during the session at Madrid's Valdebebas base .
7620
Tragic: Two pupils from the school have plunged to death since last October, causing public outcry .
Various videos online also show how the school trains pupils like exam machines.
7621
‘Everybody will look at what Financial Fair Play is going to bring to us in the next few years,’ Allardyce said.
‘That’s halting their spending power.
7622
Using a smartphone app, these images can then be sent to a central computer for analysis and then the result returned in less than 45 minutes.
7623
Adelaide University Professor Derek Abbott said there was 'a good chance' of identifying the body if South Australian Attorney-General, John Rau, agreed to exhuming the remains, which are buried at an Adelaide cemetery.
7624
Southampton (H) - L .
Arsenal (A) - L .
Their poor goal difference in relation to Hull’s could be the deciding factor.
Aston Villa (A) - L .
7625
Succi then pulled his team level as Cesena stunned the crowd in the Marc' Antonio Bentegodi stadium.
7626
The circus is believed to have left Namtsy - also known as Yakutia - abruptly after the incident.
It has not been confirmed how badly injured the girl was following the attack.
7627
Up for grabs: A red director’s chair with 'The Monkees' logo across the back is expected to fetch up to $400 .
7628
A Perth woman who claimed she cured her cancer using a dietary program where she ate vast amounts of pineapple has pledged to release her medical records after critics questioned claims about her 'magic diet'.
7629
A frustrated Dr Nowzaradan yelled at her for giving the hospital staff and her daughter 'attitude' when they were trying to help her.
It was his visit and support that changed Marla's life.
7630
In this, 52 per cent thought Mr Farage was ‘right to raise this issue - immigrants with serious conditions like HIV are costing the health service a large amount of money’.
7631
The Bundesliga champions conceded twice in the opening 10minutes before losing 3-1 to the Portuguese in the first leg of their Champions League quarter-final on Wednesday.
7632
Labour leader Ed Miliband said 'fear and uncertainty' were issues for Christians both in the UK and abroad.
Over two million children are now living in poverty in the UK.
7633
Barbie is the 96th image to come up on Google Images when you enter the search term 'CEO', after rows and rows of grinning suit-clad men .
7634
Anna and Indi, owned by 32-year-old Zane Jones, have been surfing since they were about 10 weeks old .
7635
Fabio Borini may not have had much success climbing up the pecking order in the Liverpool attack but the Italian striker had no problems scaling the heights at Delamere Forest Park on Tuesday.
7636
The victim, who did not want to be named, said: 'Our home has been ransacked without a second thought, it looks like they have just gone mad inside our house, intent on causing as much destruction as possible'
7637
Other former or current Montpellier players including Mladen Bojinovic, Samuel Honrubia, Dragan Gagic, Primoz Prost, Issam Tej and Mickael Robin will also be tried.
7638
The world No 1 is  likely to face Briton Andy Murray in the Miami final should he beat John Isner .
Simona Halep fought hard against Williams but ultimately lost in three sets .
7639
The cop told reporters when he left the courtroom that justice had been served.
Donald Lightfoot holds a sign in support of Boyd while joining other protesters in Chicago .
7640
Hinckley also has written to killers Ted Bundy and Charles Manson, and in January he deceived doctors about where he was going when he was away from St. Elizabeths, she said.
7641
It's been a tough few weeks for Darren and Dea but the finished result has lived up to all their expectations .
7642
Twiggy has long been working for the high street store - and has seemingly taken inspiration from the 70s trends seen on the catwalks this season.
7643
The Florida Senator told Bob Schieffer that he wasn't against gay marriage, but believes the 'definition of the institution of marriage should be between one man and one woman'.
7644
Martins, described as having an extremely low IQ, was arrested and admitted she had given birth but said the baby was stillborn.
7645
It's clear the kangaroo had a broken leg, and the dogs were just torturing it for such a long span of time.'
'What we're seeing there is immense suffering.'
7646
Research has already shown that the intense levels of 'blue light' emitted from modern gadgets can cause a variety of health complaints, ranging from sleeping and eating problems to headaches and even cancer.
7647
During a previous landing attempt in January, the rocket ran out of hydraulic fluid for its steering fins, causing it to crash into the platform.
7648
Sensors are pictured.
And if a patent awarded earlier this month is anything to go by, the camera on the iPhone 7 could take even better photos.
7649
Amateur champion Bradley Neil missed the cut on his debut at the Masters .
Sandy was great.
'I thought this would suit me better than the Open.
7650
He was suspended in 2013 for allegedly failing a drugs test.
After learning of Stoll's arrest, he posted this on Twitter to Andrews - getting his revenge two years on .
7651
The restaurant owner used her martial arts skills to overpower the would-be rapist and pin him to the ground .
7652
mocked-up an escort website profile on Facebook and sent it to her mother and sister.
Magistrates also placed a restraining order on Dunford and ordered that he does not contact Ms Branco.
7653
Their work follows a study last year, which suggested racism is on the rise in the UK, fuelled by financial strife.
7654
She worked as the only woman in its laboratory between 1943 and 1945 .
A canteen that was reused  during the Cold War when Drakelow Factory became a Government bunker .
7655
Sabrina Osterkamp was last seen leaving her home in Naracoorte at about midday on Sunday when she was driving a friend's car about 110km south to Mount Gambier in  South Australia's southeast.
7656
Over 700 guests and models, including Jourdan Dunn, left, James Corden, front, and Naomi Campbell, right, joined Burberry boss Christopher Bailey, back, to celebrate fashion, music, and Britishness at an exclusive event at Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles.
7657
Firefighters battle to extinguish the ferocious blaze at the Chinese chemical plant .
The plant attracted protests even before it was built.
7658
Now, nearly two months after her departure, Amira has shared a snippet of life in the Islamic State - posting an online photo of her enjoying a takeaway dinner with another teenage 'jihadi bride'.
7659
Manager Sam Allardyce's current deal expires at the end of the season and it is not certain he will be kept on .
7660
Fox admitted he was one of the hooded figures seen standing on the roof of the arch today and said he was shouting 'power to the people.'
7661
Adams failed to show for his post-match press conference after the 3-0 loss by Oxford while supporters demonstrated outside the ground, calling for the manager to leave.
7662
And his new fashionista status has been crowned with  Sam being named Vogue's April 'Today I'm Wearing' star.
Sam's new look is certainly earning plaudits from fans.
7663
All four matches mark Chelsea’s participation in this summer’s pre-season International Champions Cup with Manchester United, who Mourinho’s side will not face, LA Galaxy, Porto and San Jose Earthquakes also involved.
7664
I’m trying to explain my actions.
Wayne and Judy Anderson (pictured) were the first to be killed by Joseph McEnroe on Christmas Eve 2007.
7665
Martin's grandmother and Joshua Saunders' mother, Martha Saunders told Channel 2.
'He didn't mean to hit that baby.
He loved him.'
He loved him'
7666
John Carver has labelled Moussa Sissoko's reckless lunge on Lucas as 'indefensible' as the Newcastle boss refused to make excuses for his captain.
7667
Genevieve Kelley had previously argued that her daughter should be allowed to testify by video, but a judge turned this request down, saying she needed to be questioned by prosecutors.
7668
Participants in the annual London Tweed Run battled soaring temperatures in their finest suits on one of the sunniest Saturdays of the year .
7669
Former American President Ronald Reagan asked Mikhail Gorbachev for help from Russia to 'fight the alien invader'.
said Reagan appeared to believe in aliens .
7670
According to scientists, sugar consumption can suppress the hormone cortisol, which is released into the body when we are experiencing stress.
7671
Scroll down for video .
She instead tries to find the common traits and emotions that the cities' inhabitants share, according to Vanilla Magazine.
7672
The man, pictured in court in 2010, was released from prison last July .
The appeals court will rule on David Serbeck's appeal for a new sentence at a later date.
7673
Pacquiao took to the mountains as he prepares to take on Floyd Mayweather Jnr in May .
Pacquiao and his team continue their high intensity training ahead of the upcoming mega-fight .
7674
The mother of Ms Scott's accused killed is traumatised by the event, according to Leeton Mayor Paul Maytom .
Now, it will tragically be the venue for her funeral .
7675
The china, which has settings for 320 people, cost approximately $367,000.
The company has made dinnerware for use at the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland and aboard Air Force One.
7676
Kevin Pietersen has lashed out at Graham Gooch for commenting on his attempted England comeback .
Coach Peter Moores was less ambiguous.
7677
Sergio Aguero says the experience of scoring in a Manchester derby is unparalleled.
'He is probably one of the most naturally gifted strikers in football at the moment.'
7678
Ferguson insisted that there is no standout player capable of rivaling Messi or Ronaldo at the moment .
'I was over at the Real Madrid game with Schalke and he was fantastic.
7679
Captain Jose Fonte believes it is a big match because of the race for Europe rather than the visit of the Argentine.
7680
The deadlock was broken in the 27th minute with a well-worked but uncomplicated attack.
Donaldson fired a decent effort over on the turn as Blues sensed blood before the half was over.
7681
Alejandro Bouvier of Uruguay filmed the moment another rider got scarily close to his watercraft one sunny day.
Wrong move:
7682
Ms Walsh wrote on Facebook on Friday.
Over 6000 users joined the page and followed the journey of reuniting the ring back to its' mystery owner.
7683
Giving evidence from the witness box, he told jurors he learned of the cremation at 1pm on December 20.
Funeral director Wayne Packman also gave evidence to the trial.
7684
Accused serial killer Susan Monica interrupts court in Medford, Oregon on Tuesday on the opening day of her trial for allegedly murdering two men, dismembering their bodies and feeding them to her pigs .
7685
During Wales' RBS 6 Nations opener against England, North was accidentally allowed to stay on the pitch with concussion, prompting one of the most high-profile debates about the risk of head injuries.
7686
The house kitchen is fully equipped for people staying to use and enjoy.
The 'Bodega Iniesta' vineyard he owns in Castilla-La Mancha can be rented out .
7687
Many have called for a fight between the IBF's No 5 ranked fighter Frankie Gavin to face Kell.
People want to see him fight the best now.
7688
Olivia Bazlinton, 13, and Charlotte Thompson, 14, died when an express train hit them at Elsenham station, Essex, in December 2005 as they set off on a Christmas shopping trip.
7689
Davion Only (pictured above with Connie Going at the church where he made his speech in 2013) was adopted by a minister in Ohio but sent back into the system a few months later when he fought with one of the minister's children .
7690
Noel Biderman, 43, (pictured) who is the founder of Ashley Madison - a Canadian dating website for married people - wants to raise money from British investors to fund a launch of its services elsewhere in the world .
7691
’ While some religious folk have taken issue with the fact Mr Crawford is 'manipulating the animal' by using animal parts in his work, he maintains that he’s only used parts that would have otherwise gone to waste.
7692
A model of the popular Star Wars character is shown .
This is a more traditional image of the story of Samson, painted in 1630 by Anthonie van Dyck.
7693
‘It sets up a culture that drinking isn’t about socialising with friends, it’s about how quickly and how much you can drink.’
7694
She had claimed in court papers that she was divorced from her first husband when she married the congressman in 1990.
Lolita Grayson is a stay-at-home mother.
7695
But the nurse was unable to get access to the family despite visiting them three times in one week.
A fourth visit was successful but later appointments were not kept.
7696
Mrs Peacock (pictured with daughters Kacie, left, and Willow, right), who has a rare form of stomach cancer, has been refused a drug which could help her battle the disease .
7697
As his Chelsea team-mates edge towards the Premier League title to end a five-year wait, Petr Cech kept himself busy as he struggles for game-time by showcasing his drumming skills.
7698
But within hours the plan was in chaos as it was found the signatories included a benefit fraudster, trade unionists and the cigar-smoking children of millionaires.
7699
Philip Gardner, director of Michigan State University's Collegiate Employment Research Institute, told the Associated Press that engineering and business majors have the most chance on landing a job in today's competitive market.
7700
We sold a lot of players, not just Juan.'
Mourinho (left) and Van Gaal go head-to-head when Chelsea host Manchester United on Saturday .
7701
'It was April Fool's Day after all,' he added.
Dave and Angela Dawes' lottery ticket was worth £101,203,600 when they cashed it in October 2011.
7702
Zamora told the club's official site: 'I'm delighted to get on the scoresheet but it was a great performance from us.
It's a big game on Tuesday.'
7703
The official Conservative shop is selling baby clothes meaning they can start their opinions early .
MINI THATCHER BABY CLOTHES .
UKIP DOG T-SHIRT .
7704
Police compared her wounds to those of a car crash victim, and said she was victim to the worst child abuse they had ever seen.
7705
The 27-year-old’s followers  are surprised to see photos that showcase peaceful and stunning scenery .
She said: ‘They're delighted to see a different Somalia.
7706
Floyd Mayweather dismissed Conor McGregor's recent comments about being able to 'kill' the boxer inside 30 seconds - claiming he is just being a publicity hound.
7707
‘He’s one of the all-time England greats,’ said Flintoff.
He’s a popular lad.’
Andrew Flintoff (left) believes Pietersen is now ‘running out of time’ to resurrect his Test career .
7708
'It is hard to think what he would be like had we not found the Family Hope Center and he still wasn't able to walk or talk.
'Now he doesn't stop talking.
7709
He was held in cells overnight before being questioned for more than six hours by detectives in Cardiff yesterday.
He retired from the All Blacks in 2011.
7710
They also await Friday's Champions League semi-final draw, where they could face Madrid, Juventus or Bayern Munich.
7711
Fox News, who obtained the affidavit, also revealed that the State Department employee did admit to sharing details of his job with Gao.
7712
It was Mata's first return to Stamford Bridge since he left Chelsea in January last year .
Thanks to all and congratulations.
7713
Thankfully Stokes was able to continue after treatment but was still feeling the injury when he came on to bowl, with England battling for the wickets they desperately needed to justify Alastair Cook’s decision to insert West Indies.
7714
The latest research, by the Department of Urology at the Humanitas Clinical and Research Centre in Milan, involved two dogs sniffing the urine of 900 men - 360 with prostate cancer and 540 without .
7715
Aston Villa shocked Liverpool to reach the FA Cup final to take on Arsenal in May.
Super run and finish, even if it needed a nick off Okore to defeat Given.
7716
Udinese have not won in their last four games and coach Andrea Stramaccioni is desperate for a positive reaction from his players.
7717
According to authorities, the woman was told to hand over codes to the safe which she did not know.
Gay's two suspected accomplices were not with him when he was arrested.
7718
Deborah Steel, 37, who ran the Royal Standard pub in Ely, Cambridgeshire, was last seen alive just after 1am on 28 December 1997 .
7719
McIndoe also denied selling a property in Edinburgh at a cheap rate as part of a panic selling reaction to his financial meltdown.
7720
'She could not shake the event but continued to relive it and try to make sense of it, .
When she drifted off to sleep, she experienced nightmares and sweating.'
7721
At that point McNaughton stops the track playing on her laptop.
When the chorus builds, tears appear in Paul's eyes and his lips start quivering .
7722
A Qantas jet bound for Perth was forced to turn back to Sydney Airport after a safety light turned on mid-air.
There is no evidence at this stage of a problem,' he said.
7723
But German law meant it was left entirely up to him to volunteer his mental health problems to his employer, something he failed to do with devastating consequences after tearing up a sick note for the day of the crash.
7724
Shaw admits that he has struggled to live up to his £28million price tag since joining Manchester United .
7725
PSV Eindhoven won there first Eredivisie title in seven years after beating Heerenveen 4-1 on Saturday .
7726
The heavens are likely to open again around 5pm.
Andy is a hero in his native town and the residents have pulled out all the stops to wish the happy couple well .
7727
'I have also made assurances through the school executive and through our support teams that the child and the family involved is given the utmost support over this time.'
7728
Inhabitants are hidden away from the rest of the world, with spectacular views of the Palaia Monemvasia bay.
Phugtal Monastery, India .
Gorge
7729
Hatton became British boxing’s biggest star when he became light-welterweight world champion after an epic victory over Kostya Tszyu in 2005.
7730
In the video, the inquisitive felines climb on top of the moving cage to stare straight at the human inhabitants, while the minders keep them content with snacks .
7731
After taking over the prison and freeing a number of members of AQAP, the terrorists overran government buildings and the city's port.
7732
Firefighter Miguel Meza (left) who dove into the water in San Pedro after a car carrying a family of four plunged into the water has been hailed a hero on the Facebook page of City Councilman Joe Buscaino (right)
7733
'We're also not shunning skinny women,' adds Katinka.
Robb & Lulu have found women like seeing models who are comfortable in their own skin .
7734
Marcelo is first choice at the moment so how many games will he actually play?
Real Madrid bought Danillo this week and now they want Gaya.
7735
The days unwind quietly for Penny, with snorkelling, visits to the spa and walks around the island .
Edge's executive chef (an Aussie named Geoff Clark) serves up exquisite food.
7736
Dortmund are preparing for their home Bundesliga match with Paderborn at the weekend .
Klopp shakes hands with Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger before their Champions League tie in November .
7737
This is because there are fewer particles in the atmosphere overnight, so it takes a more powerful charge to overcome the extra distance between these particles and release the bolt of power.
7738
Two women, who were believed to be off-duty Ryanair members of staff wearing their staff lanyards, were passengers on the plane and were not wearing their uniform.
7739
'He has had so much success for Liverpool that I am sure the final game is going to be very emotional for him and the fans.'
7740
'I don’t have herpes or anything.'
Don't sit in the dark: Ellas Dawson says that people should communicate openly about herpes since so many people have it .
7741
Headteacher Andrew Smith said: 'As a school we are devastated by the news of Charlotte's death.
Another friend pays tribute to the A-level student.
7742
A spokesperson for LuxuryEstate.com said: 'This is a lovely 13th century castle.
The castle is ideally located near an international airport which has regular flights to London .
7743
Users of social media criticised the presenter as ‘childish’ and ‘arrogant’. ‘Who is this guy?
Talk about a biased and hostile interviewer, utter contempt from Chris Smith.'
7744
International organisations including the Lucie Blackman Trust were involved in trying to solve the mystery, posting pictures of Mr King online.
7745
It's the second time Murray has watched Luis Enrique's side during his time in Barcelona in less than a week.
Murray is currently in Barcelona as he trains on clay courts with Jonas Bjorkman .
7746
Lawrence Dallaglio views the poor performance of English clubs in Europe as a 'crisis' for French rugby rather than evidence of a gulf in class between the Aviva Premiership and Top 14.
7747
The court heard a cousin of Sempler and Kellman, who had worked for the Fishers as a cleaner, told the brothers that the couple kept cash in their home.
7748
Lloyd (above) refused to comment on the story, saying she no longer wished to speak about her son's murder .
I don’t know what happened but I’m very sorry for all this.'
7749
'We are not talking about little green men,' Stofan said.
The same study found that water had been present on the red planet for up to 1.2 billion year.
7750
Adrian Peterson is to meet with the NFL to discuss his reinstatement.
Peterson is under contract for 2015, and is set to earn a base salary of $12.75million from the Vikings.
7751
The 22-year-old was on Manchester United's books before moving to Italy in 2012.
Nasri gives a thumbs up despite Man City 2-1 defeat Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park on Monday night .
7752
He says: 'Our May half-term holiday has been cancelled so that they are free to get on with revision.
FOR STUDENTS .
FOR PARENTS .
Get involved!
7753
Video footage has emerged which appears to show Manchester City supporters singing a vile song about the Munich Air Disaster outside Old Trafford.
7754
Subs not used: Garmash, Chumak, Rybka, Betao .
Vargas runs away in celebration after doubling his side's lead in the closing stages of the Europa League clash .
7755
Local Leeton parents have expressed anger over the loss of their children's 'favourite teacher' as the town continues to mourn the death of Stephanie Scott.
7756
When Wilford was found, authorities said he had no collar, tags or micro-chip.
Recovery: Wilford needed more than 50 stitches after he was found in a critical condition .
7757
He was arrested on Monday for hurling one at Dave Chappelle.
According to Englander, his first attack came after Chappelle mocked his friend's name 'Johnny Appleseed'.
7758
The Holocaust deniers can always say a little old Jewish woman told lies.
He spoke at trials after the war of the operations of the gas chambers and crematoria but denied any involvement.
7759
Court records show he was $7,500 behind on child support when he was pulled over on Saturday and had already been jailed three times for missing payments.
7760
It's claimed they were on their way to join with the Islamic State .
'If people seek to return to Australia we want them arrested, prosecuted and jailed.'
7761
Enraged, Alvarado allegedly repeatedly hit the little boy.
During questioning, Alvarado allegedly confessed to the assault on videotape, the Chicago Tribune reported.
7762
And even by wingers' standards, Townsend is a risk-taker.
He will have to try to improve on that ratio when he dons his club shirt again at Burnley on Sunday.
7763
Here, BB-8 the rolling droid BB-8 is spotted inside the Millennium Falcon, peeking around a corner .
BB-8’s body is a spherical ball that allows it to move in any direction (pictured)
7764
Australian citizen Ibrahim Jalloh (pictured) is reportedly facing drugs charges in Guangzhou province .
Peter Gardner (left) and Kalynda Davis (right) were apprehended in Guangzhou.
7765
Stuart Lancaster's relationship with Ian Ritchie has come under the microscope in recent weeks .
McGuigan’s promotional company is still branded CWM Cyclone.
7766
When his test for detecting pancreatic cancer won the top award at a prestigious international science competition in 2012, his wild celebrations at the awards ceremony went viral.
7767
One falls from JoeJoe’s head – hitting him in the eye on the way down, before splashing into the water – but the capybara remains calm.
7768
With many homes under the hammer this weekend, Australian capital cities can expect record-breaking profits on their properties at auctions across the country.
7769
He said that there are 50 levels in None* but just 10 per cent of players have completed the game.
‘Puzzles have clues which lead to a correct answer.
7770
'Me and Jamie had been saving up and only Carol knew where it was.'
She was comforted by her partner, also called Jamie, after the show .
7771
Inviting criticism that the rest of his policies are all negotiable, he said he would fight for everything in the manifesto but that 'here are some Premier League policies and others which don't assume quite the same significance'.
7772
Married father-of-two Steven Christopher Costa, from Devon, plans to head to Iraq to fight against ISIS .
I'm not being paid.'
7773
The parents of a Vermont woman who died last year have sued Botox maker Allergan, saying off-label treatment of her spams caused by cerebral palsy with Botox contributed to her death.
7774
He described how residents have had several problems with fans keen to see the team train.
7775
The 25-year-old has been training with the Championship club this week and they are keen to get him on board for what is expected to be confirmed as a campaign in League One next season.
7776
In 2007, he tackled a news story about demands for music books written by a paedophile to be withdrawn, because the recorder lessons were used to groom victims.
7777
Prince Andrew will not face court action in the US over claims he had sex with an under-age girl, after a Florida judge ruled her claims must be struck out.
7778
A Somali mother said one son was arrested in Minneapolis and the other was arrested in San Diego (above)
At least one Minnesotan has died while fighting for the Islamic State.
7779
Changing times: 'In the past, a need for that love and attention may have been in less dangerous ways... but now technology has allowed it to get completely out of hand,' says Lamble .
7780
Mr Pezzullo pointed out that the nation's 'well-crafted and targeted' immigration program towards skilled migrants was a significant factor to the increase of people uprooting to Australia.
7781
Terrifying footage of the incident was taken from a car following the van, which is understood to have been transporting football fans.
7782
Franz Beckenbauer believes Jurgen Klopp could succeed Pep Guardiola at Bayern Munich .
Klopp won two Bundesliga title in seven seasons with Borussia Dortmund despite being dubbed underdogs .
7783
Singleton bought the five bedroom residence for a suburb record of $4.25 million in late 2007 .
The five king sized bedrooms offer views of the beach and the neighbouring national park .
7784
'Arsenal would be perfect for Jurgen Klopp - and he would be perfect for Arsenal,' Morgan wrote on Twitter.
The time has come, Arsenal - act.
7785
Jade was accused of 'p***ing' everybody off by posting too many photos of her baby daughter on Facebook .
Facebook is the only way they can really keep in touch.’
7786
Mr Miah was born in Bangladesh and came to this country as a boy with his parents.
However, some of his family blame him for her disappearance, added Mr Miah.
7787
In February, after the return of Goldberg who had been sidelined with a back injury, ABC let O'Donnell go but allowed her to use her recent divorce as her excuse for departing the show for a second time.
7788
His lawyer claimed the former West Coast Eagles captain had conflicting medical appointments, and said he had a photograph of the document, but the court requires a hard copy.
7789
’ Last year the World Health Organisation said the number of caesarean surgeries needed to drop to 10 to 15 per cent of births.
7790
In 2008, at the Dubai Open, an Iranian player was banned when he was found to be receiving help from someone watching the game's live broadcast on the internet and was sending the moves through text messages.
7791
Broad was concerned enough about the run-ups to summon the groundstaff the ball before coming to grief.
Bairstow fell just short of a century against England on Wednesday .
7792
Queensland health authorities are now sifting through patient records after it was revealed the man did not have the correct qualifications, the Cairns Post reports.
7793
Warburton got Brentford promoted from League One and they have been surprise play-off contenders in The Championship this season doing the league double over Fulham along the way.
7794
Aside from the local lad, the only things missing from Carrington are a windmill and some tulips with Dutch quintet Frans Hoek, Albert Stuivenberg, Marcel Bout, Jos van Dijk and Max Reckers key players.
7795
A shrine  at the scene.
Little was reportedly shot several times while at Compress's home and has been 'less than cooperative' with police.
7796
Last night, the drink, also containing manuka honey, raspberry tea and extract of echinacea, was being dubbed the ‘Chipping Norton cocktail’.
7797
Martin Roth, current director of the V&A, paid tribute to his former colleague, stating she had made a 'remarkable contribution' in her 13-years at the museum.
7798
The National Housing Federation, the trade body for the organisations, pledged to fight the proposals ‘every step of the way’.
7799
Millionaire owner Gary Lowndes who purchased the property, advertised online as Pharaoh's Palace, in 2013 for $2 million has put it back on the market after being found in violation of country zoning codes over noisey parties .
7800
'Whatever happens, due to the scale of investment already ploughed into this I don't doubt the finished development will be one of the most super-prime schemes in Mayfair.'
7801
Citing opposition from neighbors, a spokesman said they did not want to be seen as an 'evil empire'.
However, his representatives insist the project is not a form of retaliation.
7802
A Washington woman was arrested after allegedly striking a five-year-old boy with her truck before hiding from officers by crawling into a hole and covering herself with dirt.
7803
The Hamilton brothers enjoy some down time on one of LA's freeways ahead of a busy schedule of racing .
Another post on Hamilton's Instagram reads: 'No days off!
7804
She says the family are planning another party in the summer to celebrate without her cast.
'It was very emotional when she came up the aisle.'
7805
‘I know Tim Sherwood from Tottenham, he’s an unbelievable motivator and it’s the perfect job for him.
He’s up there with the best of them.’
7806
And the features of Eddie Van Halen dominate the image of Van Halen.
With raspy vocals and a healthy helping of leather, U2 made waves in the rock world .
7807
In the following weeks, the council inspected the road twice but failed to take any action before Mr Uzzell cycled along it with two friends raising money for Macmillan Cancer Support.
7808
Ronnie Rondale from Islington, London was so successful that he became a best-selling artist with Columbia records and toured the world.
7809
Peace owns 77 per cent and is looking to sell the club for between £150million to £200m but does not want a drawn out saga interfering with the club's plans for next season.
7810
Sergio Perez fears 'a very painful year' lies ahead if Force India's roll out of their upgraded car this season proves a dud.
7811
The four koalas are being gifted to Singapore to mark their 50th anniversary of independence .
The move will then be made permanent after their enclosure is completed.
7812
'My objective is to coach the national team,' Carlos said to Folha de Sao Paulo.
Carlos (right) added that he has learnt a lot from the managers he worked for as a player .
7813
Watch out: The bears have been spotted several times around the Government Hill neighborhood of the city.
7814
She knew me when I asked: 'Do you know me?'
A mini shrine for the three young children grew on Thursday as families visited the area to pay their respects .
7815
While Qantas' on time performance rating at Heathrow dropped to 75th out of 80 in the month of February, they are at serious risk of losing their landing spots at Heathrow before next flying season.
7816
Shows such as Dad’s Army and Hancock’s Half Hour have all fallen foul of the problem, which the BBC blames on the system it uses to record programmes .
Each request means a person chose to listen to a show.
7817
Jacob's Creeks' Rebekah Richardson added: 'Whatever the dish you're cooking, wherever you are in the world, it's not hard to find a recommendation for the best wine to pair it with.
7818
He and so many others in Wales would enhance the Premiership.
It’s been dismissed in some quarters as a mere publicity stunt, which is harsh on all concerned.
7819
Police have no suspects.
'A lot of people purchase bid on it or purchase it instead of transporting their animals to and from a site,' he said.
7820
Breast cancer patients may be spared chemotherapy thanks to new tests that pinpoint genetic 'markers'
I was worried it would interfere with me being able to look after my children.'
7821
England have always produced swing bowlers but not one with Anderson’s skills.
He had to go back to county cricket and watch people not as good as him play for England.
7822
Goals: 1 .
Ryan Bertrand joined Southampton on loan from Chelsea at the start of the season before completing a permanent £10m move in February.
7823
Substitutes not used: Dominic Kurasik (GK); Tom Adeloye .
Abou Diaby of Arsenal pictured shooting during the match between Arsenal U21 and Stoke City U21 .
7824
The doctor, who is now well-known on the subreddit, said the people are 'really wonderful'.
'He would be shocked to hear that well wishes are coming from all over the world.'
7825
If Watson plays against the Tigers at the AJ Bell Stadium, he would become the oldest player currently in Super League, taking over from Salford's former Leeds and Warrington forward Adrian Morley, who turns 38 next month.
7826
But the American, who ended the round on a 1-over-par 73, claimed he popped a ligament in his right wrist back into place  so he could go on to complete his first tournament of 2015.
7827
Last night she was killed and eight others, including five children, were injured in a horror crash involving a bus and a car.
7828
Rebecca has been swimming and going to the gym to keep fit during pregnancy, Instagramming her progress .
She said: 'It's better for me to be relaxed.
7829
The pensioner, who was travelling in First Class on board the Boeing 777-300 jet, was allegedly restrained by cabin crew until the plane was forced into the unplanned landing.
7830
'She could cause a surprise, but to win three matches is the tough bit.
Reanne Evans is a 10-time ladies champion who previously competed on the main tour for the 2010-11 season.
7831
But nothing, it seems, has been a greater challenge for Samantha Simmonds than a car journey with her three children.
Together they are a ticking time bomb,’ she wrote.
7832
Fox said the incident draws attention to the lack of security at the hotel.
Hawthorn CEO Stuart Fox told media the boys were intoxicated and 'Clarko was certainly harassed'
7833
Link: Cristos Charalambides, franchisee of the Cash and Cheque Express where the jewellery was found, with Nina and Maurice Anderson.
7834
Villagers from the community of 3500 claim that many on the island saw the passenger plane, and were interviewed by police and testified with signed statements to what they witnessed.
7835
Wallace and Ortiz will stand trial later.
Hernandez faces further legal trouble: He is awaiting trial on murder charges in the drive-by shooting.
7836
'Many companies have a number offices around the country and even the world, so internal meetings can be a logistical nightmare.
7837
A social worker in Rotherham advised doctors back in Croydon that she should be cared for by a Home Treatment Team (HTT)
However the request was not met.
7838
Mr Pesman Pujabroto, a spokesman for Garuda, said Mr Ambarita ‘knew the plane would stop’ after it taxied to the end of the runway at Pekan Baru.
7839
Former fast bowler Bob Willis said: ‘England’s top three looked constipated and need a good dose of syrup of figs.’
7840
Burston hopes new venture 'Inspiring Rare Birds' will empower women in business .
On Necker, Burston says her business concept inspired women and helped launch her brand .
7841
But as officials were unable to obtain the necessary assurances to guarantee al-Sibai’s safety, human rights laws mean suspects cannot be deported to countries where they are at risk.
7842
Lallana has admitted he is yet to repay the Liverpool fans for his hefty price tag and has been well short of his commanding displays for Southampton in recent seasons.
7843
He said: ‘Labour’s figures are wrong.
The Labour poster is based on the famous 1979 poster that turned Saatchi and Saatchi from unknowns into household names.
7844
Police in Western Australia have come under fire after reports emerged that hundreds of officers unlawfully accessed information relating to the arrests of fallen AFL star Ben Cousins (pictured on April 9)
7845
One asked if he was ‘crying’ – by which the questioner meant moaning or being a poor loser.
And it made a real big difference to the balance of the car for the race.
7846
Forward Paul Pierce started the overtime with a three-pointer and scored 20 points to lead the Wizards, who let a 15-point lead slip away in the fourth quarter before winning.
7847
He was terrified.'
Mr Gibson said the injuries Wayne suffered in the first fight were 'lawfully inflicted' and Mark had tried to avoid more violence.
7848
He also became only the sixth F1 driver to lead 2,000 laps.
Nico Rosberg has been left in the shade by Lewis Hamilton who celebrates winning his third race of the year .
7849
Nutritional therapist Angela Falaschi told The Telegraph: 'Hot ﬂushes are one of the most common and distressing symptoms of the menopause, with extreme highs and lows in temperature causing episodes of profuse sweating.
7850
And when the last bell rang, Lee and the amiable Quillin hugged and showed a deep admiration towards each other which has been evident all week.
7851
Edward Ronayne was given £9,000 in compensation after he claimed he suffered a psychiatric injury from seeing his wife swell up 'like Michelin man' after botched surgery at Liverpool Women's Hospital (pictured)
7852
.
‘The first three weeks, trying to listen to what people were saying for five hours... when I got home, I was totally gone,’ he admitted.
7853
When Mr Davis said he wanted to 'focus on the number of jobs', Mr Miliband had to admit: 'The number of jobs has gone up, but you know, I'm going to let people in this election make the judgment about whether that means the economy's fixed or not.'
7854
Chelsea beat Van Gaal's side to second but it is Arsenal - whose largest shareholder is American Stan Kroenke - who dominate across the pond.
7855
Pakistani children enjoy a ride at a makeshift entertainment park set up in a Christian neighborhood for Christmas holiday, in Islamabad .
7856
Brentford are considering appointing Gianfranco Zola as their new manager at the end of this season.
They are primed to drop out of Serie A alongside Parma.
7857
Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg accused Labour of 'making cheap political points using outdated statistics'.
CLAIM: The Tories have made it harder to see a GP .
7858
Mr Harrington also alleged the body scanners, that are used by millions of Americans every year, are 'practically useless'.
7859
Lunch in the sun:
On offer:
Ham Hock & Parsley Terrine, Holt Farm Piccalilli, Sourdough Crostini, Severn Project Salad Leaves £6.50 .
Vistas:
7860
I love the sport, I'm a massive fan.
I'm hooked on it.
Carrick (right) moved to West Ham as a 15-year-old, and says it forced him to grow up fast .
7861
The Indonesian government has issued a statement condemning Saudi Arabian authorities' failure to notify them and Zainab's family before executing her.
7862
The Wales international injured his calf during Saturday's 3-1 win against Malaga in the opening stages .
James has been doing great, both on the right and in midfield.
7863
Some 42 per cent of undecided voters regard him as a good leader, compared to only 14 per cent who say the same of Mr Miliband.
7864
He also sent her gifts, including flowers, sausages, candy and a picture of a man in a mask, to both her home and her workplace, according to court records.
7865
Craig Gordon (left) was rightly sent off by the referee for fouling Marley Watkins when he went through .
'Everybody is very disappointed today.
7866
‘Urban areas may benefit bees more than farmland by providing a wide variety of flowering plants, providing a cosmopolitan menu for insects from spring through to autumn.
7867
Grimes (left) claimed in her 2012 lawsuit that she suffered lasting injuries during a boozy brawl with Saban (right) in 2010, which evidence showed began over a Facebook post after a night of drinking .
7868
Satine Cahill was serving as the team's mascot ahead of their match against North Melbourne at Adelaide Oval on Sunday.
7869
Where would the careers of Tottenham pair Harry Kane and Nabil Bentaleb be without Sherwood’s guidance last season?
It has been a very long season.
7870
A corrections officer monitored the security camera system at Souza-Baranowski, where 366 cameras are used to monitor inmate activity .
7871
One complaint sent to welfare officers warned that ‘someone could have been killed’ at the event.
‘There was a flap of skin hanging down between the horse’s legs.’
7872
It was so far from the truth.
'If he was unhappy why should he leave it to them,' she said, adding: 'If my son does not treat me well I will do the same.'
7873
The Belgian international gave Chelsea the lead from the spot and made no mistake against Asmir Begovic .
'It is the old cliche but it is ticking a box then moving on.
7874
She said: 'I was left confused after visiting the doctor.
Dr Tabi Leslie, from the British Association of Dermatologists, explained that dermographism or 'skin writing' is a type of urticaria.
7875
It is being handled accordingly due to the severity of his actions.'
Since the vehicle did not belong to any of the three athletes who were in the car at the time, none of them were charged.
7876
The MailOnline's source within the camp said: 'The child does not exist now in the camp.
Fighting has been going on Hudea's entire life, killing 10,000 children since 2011.
7877
Light origami:
Crystal glass:
The Sydney Opera House will get a brightly coloured facelift every evening from 6pm-midnight during the festival .
7878
'They have got very hardline views on people who need help from the state because they have fallen on hard times,' Mr Clegg said.
7879
'I mean, that's where the people that work at Chipotle, that's where they make a little extra, in the tip jar, and I haven't heard a word about whether or not she visited the tip jar, whether she put anything in it or not.'
7880
Tributes have been paid to two young friends who tragically died after their car crashed into a church wall.
The brother of Mr Careford led tributes to the pair.
7881
O'Driscoll has been in Hong Kong this week working as an ambassador for HSBC ahead of the Hong Kong Sevens and clearly found time to unwind away from his commitments.
7882
Nicola Sturgeon today faced claims she would 'paralyse' the UK economy with her demand for another referendum on Scottish independence.
7883
Luckily for Ryan, Luke was more than pleased to undergo the transformation for the cause.
Quick work: Within moments, Luke's hair was a nearly-neon shade of pink .
7884
'Even though it's only my second event, I have high expectations of what I can do and what I should do.
'I'm still very competitive though.
7885
The pair appear to remain very much an item, but Crowley has been taking heat on Instagram for refusing to give up her wild ways while Manziel was being treated for his unspecified problems.
7886
Indiana University student Hannah Wilson, 22, was last seen at about 1am on Friday.
Piper said Wilson was found fully clothed and there was no sign of sexual assault, according to Sky News.
7887
The People's Daily reports the large brick building is 1,700 square metres in size and requires more than 1,000 wheels to make the daily 'walk' possible.
7888
He also said he was eager to bring all of the fighters in Iraq under state control.
But he added that any foreign-backed groups in Iraq should now be under Abadi's control.
7889
They had a shared interest in DIY and he liked to hear about Mr Sharp's son.
Mrs Hutchins, 53, told the court that her family had been close to her honorary 'uncle' Mr Butcher.
7890
A rescued baby orangutan whose heartbreaking plight captured the hearts of thousands, has gone on to find love.
Two peas in a pod:
Rescued:
7891
Arsenal, Manchester City, Manchester United and Newcastle all currently comply with the regulations and have pitch sizes of 105m x 68m.
7892
'We haven't ever confirmed a due date,' a Kensington Palace source told MailOnline.
Back in town: The Palace has said Prince Harry will be in London this weekend before returning to Australia .
7893
Rovers bounced back, capitalising on an unforced error from Shaw to halve the early deficit when winger Mantellato dived over in the corner then converted his own try.
7894
'I'm sure in the future we will have very important players coming from the Academy, they will be part of the squad.
7895
Immobile fits the profile of player Liverpool want.
Sampdoria want £8million for the 23-year-old but West Ham may strike a deal for £5m plus add-ons.
7896
The memo, found by his Liberal Democrat successor David Laws, said: 'Dear Chief Secretary, I'm afraid that there is no money.
7897
‘This decision follows a long period of unhappiness and lack of understanding between the choir and the leadership of Lavenham Church.
7898
Researchers studying chimps in Uganda say the apes are having to adapt to cope with increasingly busy roads cutting across their territory.
7899
A wicked mistake in the men's college hockey title game on Saturday by Boston University's goalie allowed Providence to tie in the third period and paved the way for the Friars to win their first title.
7900
'We are expecting them to put in a determined performance in front of their own fans.'
'Playing at our top level is our aim on Sunday.
7901
■ Nick Clegg questioned the ‘legitimacy’ of a government led by a party that finishes second.
■ Labour prepared to step up warnings about Tory ‘privatisation’ of the NHS.
7902
Distinctive: NYPD has released images of a heart tattoo with the name 'Monique' found on an unnamed woman who died in Brooklyn last month.
7903
Emad Sahabi writhes in pain after suffering an horrific ankle break while playing for Al Orubah .
7904
Jimmy White's bid to play in the World Snooker Championship for the first time since 2006 ended on Monday as he crashed to defeat by Matthew Selt.
7905
Along with favorites from DreamWorksTV, Jim Henson TV, Mother Goose Club, Talking Tom and Friends and more, your kids can watch new series from YouTube channels they already like.
7906
However, he has remained behind bars since his brief appearance, and will remain there over the weekend after an official from the magistrates' court today said it had not received the money.
7907
Officers then decided to x-ray the lamb, which revealed the 20g bag of marijuana.
Offenders are warned that they face serious charges when they are caught.'
7908
New kid on the block: Sydney's  Dan Churchill takes on New York with live cooking segment at Times Square .
And just like that the bond was formed, according to Churchill.
7909
He said that traditional Labour voters also want to send a message to Ed Miliband, 'you don't represent us anymore'.
In Scotland, Labour's heading for a wipeout.
7910
Neither suspect has yet been formally charged with any crime, as is normal in Spain in the early stages of an investigation.
John Capper's private jet.
7911
Films and TV shows depicting 'beautiful young vampires' have led to a surge of young people dabbling in occult forces, an exorcism expert says.
7912
Cantona once professed his desire to be the manager at Old Trafford but has changed his mind, predicting United would recapture their old dominance under Van Gaal.
7913
Distin has played more for Everton's youth team than the first XI in the past month, and could be on his way .
'We know the situation with Tom.
7914
Part of his success comes from the way the team is set up in front of him.
Jose just made good use of his squad.
There is no doubt as to who is the boss now.
7915
The judge ruled Ms Goyer's views were not 'extensive or iconic' and they were already at risk of being built out because of the streets subdivision .
7916
'Beginning this month Gracie Mansion will undergo asbestos abatement and some long-needed roof repairs.'
A storage shed also is being built on the mansion's property.
7917
Model Hailey Baldwin also appears in the publication, revealing that she used to sleep over at Kim Kardashian's house when she was working in New York .
7918
To date the toddler's Easter egg rolling fail  has been watched more than 90,000 times.
'But as everyone can see Blaine, wasn’t so successful.'
7919
Marks & Spencer is stocking the Bouea macrophylla – or mango plum – after years of work with specialist growers in Thailand.
7920
A probe by The Sun used swabs coated with special chemicals which reveal traces of cocaine to test toilet cubicles in bingo halls around the country.
7921
His deal follows new contracts announced earlier this week for locks George Kruis and Maro Itoje.
'What has pleased us most about Marcelo is that he has rediscovered his love for the game.
7922
Everton, Newcastle and Swansea have all shown interest while Ayew's representatives have held talks with Roma.
It is an important step for me.'
7923
It means that captain Wayne Rooney is likely to be asked to sacrifice himself for the team once again by dropping into midfield — an issue that both player and manager must have hoped was behind them.
7924
Often travel and packing a suitcase can look effortless and sophisticated, when photographs have been carefully selected, with a tactical filter applied.
7925
On the eve of their 10th wedding anniversary, Letourneau, 53, and Vili Fualaau, 31, spoke about the rape trial and their marriage in an interview with Barbara Walters for '20/20', which will air tonight.
7926
However, he and his fellow competitors were no match for Troy Merritt, who fired a 10-under 61 to equal the course record at Harbour Town Golf Links and open up a four-shot lead at the top of the standings.
7927
Police found the infant unharmed when they discovered O'Shaughnessy's body.
Police found the six-month-old baby daughter he shared with Gosling alive and unharmed .
7928
And the Sheffield welterweight is hoping to fight again at the O2 in London on May 30 with stablemate and countryman Frankie Gavin a possible opponent.
7929
Nabil Fekir's father believes a move to Arsenal would benefit the Lyon star, rather than a switch to Man City .
He will not go to Manchester City to sit on the bench.'
7930
Alex Hales claims he is still waiting for a 'proper crack' at one-day international cricket.
'I am still learning my game, but I would definitely not say I have been "worked out".'
7931
The company (Atlanta headquarters pictured) allegedly inadvertently revealed his identity in a number of emails .
7932
It is believed Mr Echukwu is a Nigerian from north London who was at his first swingers' party at the eight-bedroom house.
'He was just such a gentle person.
7933
Prime Minister David Cameron was one of the many famous faces to lend his support to Clarkson in the aftermath, while over one million people signed a petition urging the BBC to reinstate him.
7934
Hope said that the statement was a 'slap in the face to veterans'.
Three members of the University of Florida chapter have been expelled.
7935
The study also looked at social media and found that middle class teenagers were more likely to use Snapchat, the controversial message service where messages disappears seconds after they are sent .
7936
Both of the girl’s parents were initially under investigation, but authorities said there are no plans to arrest the girl’s mother, who is cooperating with DCFS investigators, The Tribune reported.
7937
Holidaymakers who announce they are going on a two-week trip or regularly post selfies from the beach on Facebook while they are away could find their insurer refusing to pay out if they are burgled .
7938
He was scheduled to have dialysis Friday at the prison's treatment center, but a technician did not show up on Friday or Saturday.
7939
Sportsmail's Racing Correspondent Marcus Townend and Britain's No 1 tipster Sam Turner cast their eye over the 39-strong field for the race and offer their predictions.
7940
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has defended Nigel Pearson and admires the Leicester City boss for being 'his own man.'
'He's his own man.
7941
Father Arron Cutugno said he was 'disgusted' by the choice to play music during the minutes silence .
The spokesperson said all Merivale staff and management had left the venue by 4am.
7942
The Spaniard has been linked with the managerial job at Sampdoria after it emerged that Sinisa Mihajlovic - the current Blucerchiati boss - is being lined up to replace Benitez at Napoli.
7943
This as many are still wondering what future the highly touted athlete will have in the NFL.
According to ESPN, Manziel was 'doing great' in rehab, and had the full support of his team.
7944
Dr Brandt was famed for his appearance, which displayed many of his dermatology techniques.
The doctor told The Times that people often asked him if he was from Sweden.
7945
Manager Louis van Gaal (left) oversees the action as captain Wayne Rooney runs with the ball at Aon Training Complex .
7946
In a later message, Holman had thanked her and indicated she would not be 'speaking to him' - said by the Crown to refer to Dean Harrison.
7947
The one goal Munich did score over their last three encounters came from Robert Lewandowski in the 1-0 win against his former club Borussia Dortmund and the two sides will meet again in the semi-final.
7948
The foster care system separated Crapser, ten at the time, from his sister, whom he was dependent on, according to orphanage records.
7949
Researchers from Oxford and Plymouth universities have also found that genes thought to be risk factors in cancer were present in the Neanderthal genome.
7950
He added that the fossil may also help scientists unpick what caused the giant birds to eventually die out.
7951
The Russian finally got his hands on the Champions League trophy following Chelsea's success in 2012 .
Normally, in a few years they should be there [in the national side].’
7952
The video opens inside a tunnel build into the Swiss mountain as the train makes its way along the 9km long electrified track .
7953
He has just endured his second hour-long laser removal session in a bid to get rid of the botched needlework.
He said: 'Once I've got them off, my job isn't done.
7954
A spokesman said the use of a refrigerated lorry was normal practice at hospitals across the country and, as most undertakers were closed on bank holidays, the hospital mortuary had filled up.
7955
The jury heard the victim, who is heterosexual, had been on a night out with friends after finishing work and ended the night at Coyne's pub where he fell asleep on a sofa.
7956
Police said all three of the burglars were 17 to 20 years old, according toNBC Los Angeles.
Police believe the three burglars are between 17 to 20 years old .
7957
Polcie were seen entering the grounded plane at LF Wade International Airport in Bermuda .
The passengers in question were removed from the aircraft and met by police.
7958
'She then rubbed the carpet area on the floor of our seats and discovered the whole area was wet.
The family were given trash bags by the airline to put their luggage in.
7959
I ask if the city really functions as darkly as it does in House Of Cards.
Washington was chosen as America’s new capital in 1790 after months of haggling and compromise.
7960
Lewis Hamilton (Britain) Mercedes 1:35:05.809 .
5. Sebastian Vettel (Germany) Ferrari 00:43.989 .
He was now running second behind Hamilton, who was in clear command.
7961
The Obama administration points to studies that show that methane pollution is projected to increase to a level equivalent to over 620 million tonnes of carbon dioxide pollution in 2030, if no action is taken.
7962
Speaking to a Networking WA audience at Crown Perth on Wednesday, the burns survivor said she still feels haunted when she talks about being caught in the bushfire when she competed in an ultra-marathon in Kimberley in September 2011.
7963
He said that paramedics and police were called to his home in Union Road, Lowestoft, that morning and death was confirmed at 11.48am.
7964
An Arizona man who suffers from an extreme case of a tumor disorder in which his body is covered in noncancerous lumps said he finally has a feeling of belonging.
7965
'The dreams are for everybody - we all have dreams at night, but when I wake up in the morning I have to come here and make sure we give everything to win the next game.'
7966
Mr Javid, who is increasingly tipped as a potential future Conservative leader, cited evidence that viewing hardcore porn can lead to children 'pressuring each other to try out things they've seen, and sharing inappropriate sexual pictures and videos'.
7967
Prescott, Arizona City Attorney Jon Paladini (left) claims that the lone surviving Granite Mountain Hotshot Brendan McDonough overheard an argument between the crew leader and his deputy over the move, which would prove deadly .
7968
However, suspicions were raised when the animal slain on camera appeared larger than usual, and it has now turned out to be an endangered American crocodile.
7969
And, former Liverpool and Chelsea manager Rafa Benitez is being equally cautious over his Napoli side's chances of beating Europa League minnows Dnipro, warning: 'They are a good side'.
7970
Beyond that the 43 year-old Swede may also come into his own, as it is unclear how this will affect Mauresmo's 26 week per year commitment to the Scot, which is almost exclusively spent on the road.
7971
Remote: It was home to a post office, a grocery store and even a school house in the 1870s and 80s.
She now manages Merrill Ranch in the town with her husband .
7972
Despite not being able to recognise all of his children in the street, Holpin is in no rush to stop reproducing.
He said: 'I helped them by having sex with her.
7973
Clarence Seedorf (centre) won four Champions League with three clubs, including two with AC Milan .
7974
The family urged anyone with information about the incident to contact police to help them 'find justice for Bernadette and Sarah'.
7975
The 40-year-old has now launched court action against the city's education department as she attempts to get her licence back so she can work in another school.
7976
The Glimpsing Heat from Alien Technologies Survey (G-Hat), published in the Astrophysical Journal, details how the team thought they might see the infrared signature of a race far more advanced than ours.
7977
In the three-game series against the Athletics, the teams clashed almost every match until five players and coaches were thrown out of the finale.
7978
The finding – hidden in a footnote to a Greenpeace press release – shows greater backing for the shale gas industry than other recent polls.
7979
Nudel is facing a slew of charges including felony counts of assault and aggravated cruelty to animals, misdemeanor counts of overdriving, assault, obstruction, torturing and injuring animals, resisting arrests, and lesser counts of harassment.
7980
Tim Farron (left) was accused by Jo Stephenson's (centre) widow Hilary (right) of 'betrayal' after an inquest found that he jumped from the roof of his house while suffering 'intense stress'
7981
WKMG reports that an initial investigation determined there was foul play.
Neighbors said his mother may have been the one preventing him from making the meeting with his son.
7982
Click on the graphic below to get a closer look at what the biggest names in the game will face when they tee off on Thursday.
7983
Scroll down for video .
Women were then filmed testing the machine for the two University of Vienna students' art project entitled Beautification.
.
7984
'On an individual level it's great, but on a team performance it was ok and there's a lot that we can improve on for next week.'
7985
Manchester City boss Manuel Pellegrini says he is not impressed by Manchester United's rise up the table .
'But it's not a surprise how they are playing in this moment.'
7986
Gin:
Onto red wine stains in fabrics, the video said the key is to 'act fast and grab a bottle of the nearest high proof clear liquor'.
7987
Kimberly Waddell Macemore, 25, of Wilkesboro, was sentenced on Tuesday to a total of not less than 12 months nor more than 34 months in prison.
7988
The marketing team for both Mayweather and Pacquiao put together the 30-second clip, filmed in a Los Angeles studio on March 11, to advertise the pay-per-view event.
7989
High on the list: David Cameron and William Hague will today pledge that delivering effective ‘home rule’ for England will be one of their party’s top priorities if re-elected .
7990
Sutcliffe is being lined up for the move after he expressed remorse and said he no longer hears the 'voices from God' which he had blamed for his killing spree at his 1981 trial.
7991
Bubka also called for a 'very deep study' to look at the possibility of imposing sanctions on national federations who have a high number of doping cases, given the associated legal complications.
7992
The 24-year-old scored his first since joining from Chelsea in February as they beat Stuttgart 3-1.
'We put them under pressure and created chances, so I think we deserved to win.'
7993
Trainer Richard Hannon is represented by Osaila and Marsh Hawk in the Nell Gwyn at Newmarket .
John Gosden’s Faydhan is the key horse entered in Wednesday’s Free Handicap.
7994
A Norfolk Police spokesman said that 'sadly the pilot of the aircraft died at the scene' and his next of kin has been informed.
The plane went down
7995
Hemphrey's rise is all the more remarkable given that the three counties in his first incarnation as a cricketer were at least as interested in his off-spin (he has not bowled this past winter due to a labral tear in his shoulder).
7996
The church congregation, and charity Friends of Batch Abbey, donated £1.1million to the project, but the anonymous donor topped that, with their gift of £1.5million .
7997
Kilcoy State School (pictured) in north Brisbane is working with Queensland Health after a whooping cough outbreak in the area .
7998
The 11-year-old was returned to safety shortly afterwards.
At around 3.30pm yesterday the coastguard was called to Brean Beach after reports of the boy becoming stuck.
7999
'I don't give a damn if I go back to society.'
His mother, Debbie Stancil, said her son was angry over being dismissed from his work-study job for excessive absenteeism.
8000
'I think now is the moment to really focus on what we have to do which is to win the games and not about future of players.
8001
Monica McDermott, 41, could not walk straight when police stopped her black Lexus on a road in Macclesfield, Cheshire.
She was banned from driving for two years.
8002
During a weekend of stunning goals, Gomis got in on the act with an impressive overhead kick before doubling his goal tally in the last minute of Swansea's victory.
8003
She was joined by former Director of Public Prosecutions Lord Macdonald who said a ‘trial of the facts’ should have been considered.
8004
1,675 images and videos depicting child pornography were discovered by officers.
Some time ago the police came to my house looking for images of under-age children on my computer.
8005
Scientists hope the machine will be able to detect and describe dark matter for the first time .
When we will get results we don't know.
8006
I was a talented youth player in Northern Ireland.
Rodgers (centre) described himself as a 'talented youth player', but he failed to make the grade .
8007
Scene: The image was reportedly taken at Sebastian Inlet State Park (pictured) near Vero Beach, Florida .
8008
The club's general manager Sergey Kernitskiy says the houses are valued at around £67,000 .
8009
It is essential that keeping Aguero is top of that ever-growing list or else that ageing blue machine risks heading for an even bigger crash.
8010
'PIGS':
White House domestic employees said they heard Hillary 'clock him with a book' during the Monica Lewinsky scandal .
8011
This colour represents the time period at which they clicked The Button, ranging from zero up to 60 seconds .
Users are tweeting their views about The Button.
8012
Mr Hazzard added public housing tenants were already liable for damage but 'they don't have the money'.
Mr Cutcher added that damage was often unfairly attributed to tenants.
8013
Members of the ONE Pro Cycling, for which the former England cricketer is CEO, in the Chorley Grand Prix .
To be given an opportunity to race in Yorkshire is another massive tick in the box.'
8014
Gaffney says that parents have been informed about the case involving Loughlin and staff will be on hand to address any concerns.
8015
Get Well mate,' Daniel Gannon posted on Twitter.
Another witness, who was surfing at the time, told Daily Mail Australia that 'there was blood everywhere'.
8016
Supporters of both sides gathered outside the 60,000-capacity stadium before kick-off to show off banners against the rising costs of modern football.
Further protests are expected after full-time at the Emirates.
8017
More than 280 people have donated to the page, with many leaving messages of support.
The court heard Mr Mach had recently ended a three-year relationship with the accused killer.
8018
Diddy offers to place a bet of $100,000 on Mayweather in the Las Vegas mega-fight next weekend .
Pacquiao in training with Freddie Roach at the Wild Card Gym leading up to the fight .
8019
It is hoped the ten-day 100km trek to the North Pole will raise £250,000 for the Lewis Moody Foundation as well as the Royal Marines Charitable Trust.
8020
It would cost an estimated $8,000 to $10,000 for Poulin to recast the statue, according to the Celoron Mayor Scott Schrecengost.
8021
Authorities recovered a knife from the scene, sources told the New York Daily News.
Both Pacers and Knicks fans flocked to social media to wish him a speedy recovery on Wednesday.
8022
Floyd Mayweather might insist his skills haven't diminished with age but at 38, the world's best boxer does need a little help to keep niggling injuries at bay.
8023
But Lehmann insisted Haddin was following team orders.
And he was able to cite the ICC’s failure to censure his team as evidence that they hadn’t gone over the top.
8024
The aviator, who has 28 years of cockpit experience, said the alien aircraft glowed bright red for around 30 seconds before disappearing below the clouds, according to the New York Daily News.
8025
'I made a vow a few years back that when I reached 60 that I would grow old disgracefully and it's quite nice to know that yes that's happened.
8026
It was going to be difficult for them over 90 minutes so we knew it would open up.'
He said: 'We need to make sure we're within three points of Ross County or Motherwell after the next two games.
8027
Police have previously said they suspected it was an inside job because the 18-wheeler truck - owned by transport company TransValue - pulled over when one of the two armed guards on board 'felt sick'.
8028
'The game against Porto was quite meaningful for two players in particular,' Hamann told Kicker.
'Schweinsteiger has apparently lost the battle for a place in midfield to Xabi Alonso.
8029
Researcher and education expert at the University of East Anglia, Dr Teresa Belton, believes that people living modestly tend to find more satisfaction in their lives.
8030
She said: 'Over the past few days, I have sought clarification about the issues raised by some officers.
Ms Sim said she would co-operate with the inquiry.
8031
Later in the episode, Chanel claims that though she believes the blood bath helped her self-esteem, she 'has no desire to do it again'.
8032
While he found Silva did intend to cause Mr Polkinghorne grievous bodily harm when she stabbed him in his back and head, he said the situation was 'exceptional'.
8033
District Judge Nigel Cadbury mentioned the 24-year-old during a separate court hearing to issue a warning about women drinking too much alcohol.
8034
After his fourth successful take-on he smashes the ball over the bar with an open goal gaping.
'I enjoy everything he does on the pitch,' former France international Zidane said.
8035
Cheslea are in talks over a partnership with Belgian side Royal Mouscron-Peruwelz - defender Thibault Peyre pictured in action .
8036
We need to share the decision.
Kane, pictured in action against Leicester in March, has been hugely impressive for Tottenham this season .
8037
On March 5, U.S. Capitol Police notified FDLE agents that she was in Washington D.C. attempting to meet with Department of State members to 'demand her deportation,' the Sentinel reports.
8038
Bertolucci looks after Oscar, Willian and Ramires.
Kenedy has represented Brazil at Under 17 and Under level - pictured here in January for the U20's .
8039
Standing in the square in downtown Johannesburg named for Mahatma Gandhi, the memorial marks the Indian anti-colonial leader's time in South Africa, where he formulated the principle of passive resistance.
8040
A report in the Eastern Daily Press from 1988 tells how the body was found floating on the pond .
The baby was stillborn.'
The baby boy was re
8041
However, Hyndburn Borough Council, which took the action, said in a subsequent statement that both Rodgers and co-owner Judith O'Hagan had their case overturned at a later hearing.
8042
The Gunners conceded only 26 goals in the process as they finished 11 points clear of Chelsea.
Gary Neville, Jaap Stam, Ronny Johnsen, Denis Irwin .
8043
'Adam was obviously very upset because he feels responsible for the defeat.
'On Wednesday night when we play Birmingham, he'll be typical Adam Federici - one of our best players.'
8044
The Toyal Lotus technology (right) stops yoghurt from sticking to lids of pots (left).
In 1977, German botanist Wilhelm Barthlott studied the surface of the leaf under a microscope.
8045
From the restaurant, guests can stroll out on to the terrace and sit by the pool which blends in with the sea beyond .
An additional trip to Uruguay can be added into the itinerary at an extra cost.
8046
The legal loophole in an official application document on 'private hire driver licensing' says people coming to Britain will not be required to have their criminal convictions checked.
8047
The former stockbroker - who lives with his wife and daughter Sophia, one, in a £45million house in west London - married the heiress in a £7million wedding in France in July 2013.
8048
The number of teenagers getting straight As at GCSE has soared by a third in just five years, new figures show.
In 2009, the number of students who managed to get straight As was 15,791.
8049
Soon after that, Crawford was a two-time WBO champion, winning the latest title in his first fight since moving up in class.
He was woozy.'
8050
Cuomo said the purpose of his visit was to see what can be . done now and look to the future should full trade be restored.
Cuba.
Meeting:
8051
We need to sit down and look at the Judicial Panel process.
I’m not really saying [all] that I really want to say.
I think there’s more to say.
8052
Lubiewski contacted LifeTouch School Photography on Facebook and told them 'how disrespectful' the family thought it was for the company to treat Abby 'differently than other children in the school'.
8053
Instead, he recovered, just like old times.
That is why they continue to hurry when he has played, no matter the needs of his patient partners.
8054
Ian Bell rescued England from a nightmare start with a century in the first Test against West Indies that was pay back time for being dropped during his last Caribbean series.
8055
Ibrahimovic took his PSG career tally to 102 goals since joining three years ago, and Argentina winger Ezequiel Lavezzi added the other goal as the capital side advanced to meet Auxerre in the final and and keep them on course for quadruple.
8056
In the last couple of years in England I haven't had much of a chance to develop.
Over there they have less teams so the standard is fantastic.
8057
Seriously, he's liking the playlist.'
Young explains the changing room music protocol at Old Trafford to  Murs on the Thursday Focus programme .
8058
He made his Premier League debut for the club in 2005 and was sold in 2010 to Manchester City.
Initially the player was suspended after his arrest.
8059
Author: Peter Schweizer, pictured, researched donations made to Clinton's foundation and was noted by the Times for 'meticulously' documenting his sources .
8060
Ms Reichert went on to claim that alcohol gave her the confidence to approach the Prince before they shared a kiss.
8061
Exploitation has driven low-skilled migration and held down wages for British workers, the Labour leader said during an outing in Wirral West earlier today.
8062
Kim Kardashian told E! on Friday afternoon during a Variety event that she would indeed be watching former stepfather Bruce Jenner talk to Diane Sawyer later that evening .
8063
Manchester United boss Louis van Gaal has warned his players that Champions League qualification is still not assured despite holding an eight-point gap over Liverpool after Saturday's results.
'It is not done yet,' he said.
8064
The cut mark should now be visible all the way around the potato.
The next step is to simply use your fingers to gently pull the skin off the cooked potato.
8065
Family first:
A friend even made the shocking suggestion to Buckley that they could build her a podium to stand behind once she started to show.
8066
It is thought the lion crossed two freeways to get to his home in Griffin Park, but it is not known how long he has been living in the crawl space in the Los Feliz hills .
8067
Gerry Pickens, 28, is suing Orting, Washington, for firing him.
However, the initial letter confirming that Pickens would be fired cited 'unsatisfactory performance'.
8068
He also participates in music therapy.
Hinckley has been allowed freedom in stages.
Freedom for Hinckley, who turns 60 next month, has come gradually.
8069
The young victim's mother and 17-year-old brother were also reported to be in the bedroom,  while the boy's grandmother was in another room.
8070
Subs not used: Macey, Gibbs, Rosicky, Walcott.
Error-strewn performance defined Liverpool’s first-half.
One pass to Markovic created a first-half chance.
8071
Napoli defeated Fiorentina in the 2014 Coppa final, but Roma fans were involved in clashes after the game .
8072
The rise came after the oil giant Royal Dutch Shell announced plans to buy BG Group in a £47billion deal.
News of the merger led to job fears.
8073
Erica Avery was cuffed and hauled out of a Broward County courtroom after being accused of using the internet, which itself violated the conditions set just one month prior when she was first released on $100,000 bond.
8074
Frontline femme fatale:
Faces of the frontline:
'And hopefully, she'll have the pleasure of knowing she attracted hundreds of young men to join up.'
8075
He is seen wearing a bright red beanie, black pants, sweat top and sneakers.
According to police, the theft occurred shortly after 5am when the area was pretty deserted.
8076
Dog murder:
When police arrived they found Li gone.
'He immediately confessed to killing the dog and said he didn't know why he had done it.'
8077
He said global investors warn that an SNP-Labour deal 'will lead to higher market interest rates, which means higher mortgage rates for families, which means higher bills, cut incomes, it means businesses finding it more difficult to expand'.
8078
Jules Bianchi, 25, remains in a coma after a crash at the Japanese Grand Prix in October 2014 .
The 25-year-old Bianchi is now in Nice, under the watch of neurosurgeons.
8079
The findings, published in the British Journal of General Practice, show that seeing the same GP was not linked to a later diagnosis for breast cancer or lung cancer.
8080
Royal baby?
The Duchess is expected to go into labour any day now, but has someone predicted how the baby will look .
8081
Sunderland (H) Speaking ahead of Chelsea's home clash with Manchester United on Saturday night, Mourinho said: 'Diego is progressing very well, I think he has a chance for next weekend.
8082
Captured in a 15-second clip, the youngster emulates the way her pregnant mother walks - and the result is hilarious.
8083
The Saints players mob goalscorer Ryan Seager after he converted a chance to put them ahead .
Home manager Ronald Koeman watched on from the stands as his youth side lifted the trophy .
8084
Yorkshire's Adam Lyth fields during day three of the Champion County match against the MCC .
’ Lyth’s dedication has been evident for years.
8085
No,’ said Wenger.
It’s maybe because Wayne Rooney took the initiative during the game to play higher up and tell Theo to drop back.
8086
Ana Ivanovic crashed out at the first hurdle of the 2015 Porsche Tennis Grand Prix in Stuttgart on Tuesday as she suffered another defeat to Caroline Garcia.
8087
The England international reacted angrily to a challenge by the Gunners defender and was shown a straight red card during the second half of the Women's Super League clash at the City Football Academy.
8088
But fans will be hoping to see more of the 22-year-old, as her Golf Punk magazine photo shoot is bound to produce more Indian Ocean treats.
8089
Clarke, a winner as player and coach at Chelsea, has told his players not to get caught up in the occasion, with progression the only objective.
8090
The condition of women is a little bit different now,' he said.
The show will start from the grid... but the star at the end is the sportscars and the drivers of the car.'
8091
Speaking at Torrey Pines, where Woods quit after 12 holes to rebuild his short game, he was a rare voice predicting this cautiously positive return.
8092
Whittaker then fired wastefully over the top after being set up by Wes Hoolahan before Norwich took a deserved lead on 33 minutes after conjuring up a goal out of nothing.
8093
The British singer visited Jess Knight in Auckland Hospital after she was forced to give up her concert tickets due to her cancer treatment .
8094
Keeping dry was vital to my survival.'
Jordan's statement thanked the Coast Guard rescuer who dropped down from the helicopter to lift Jordan off the boat.
8095
'Mikenzy knew that Matt deserved the chance just like everyone else.'
Carmen explained that some of her daughter's 'best times' have been with Matt.
8096
Manohar said on December 23 she unzipped her top, making him uncomfortable, and followed him around 'like a puppy'.
Nurse B also reported him to the police.
8097
Search for apps below .
The security researchers are asking readers to highlight any apps still at risk in the comments on its blog post.
8098
Yet Campbell, 40, seems to be keen to rid himself of the flat before the election.
Since 2009 Campbell has also owned Grade II-listed Hallington Hall, an 18th Century mansion in Northumberland.
8099
'The messages of condolence sent to us have been huge.
Lancashire Police say his death is not being treated as suspicious but an inquest will be held in due course .
8100
Arsenal's first team stars will be dressed in similar attire when Arsene Wenger's side make their way to Wembley Stadium for their FA Cup final encounter against Aston Villa on May 30.
8101
#
.
Violeta has joined the #kyliejennerchallenge by placing a shot glass over her mouth so the vacuum of air causes the lips to swell .
8102
The duo were tracked down, and at Preston Crown Court on Wednesday Munro was jailed for five years and four months, while Thompson was sentenced to three years and four months.
8103
If you make mistakes against the top teams they will punish you.
’ Clarke has challenged his players to make history by getting to the FA Cup final for the first time.
8104
MacDonald hit the headlines in 2011 when he tried to fake his own death in a bid to shirk responsibility for his ninth child.
Keith MacDonald: .
8105
The hotel's reading room offers dozens of books, and each guest room contains up to 150 titles related to specific genres or topics .
8106
Leicester City: Smith-Varnham, Miles, Chilwell (c), Choudhury, Kipre, Johnson, Bailey (Barnes 62), Fox, King, Rowe (Muskwe 72), Ndukwu .
Unused subs: Knight, Bramley, Dombrauskis, .
8107
Colombian goalkeeper David Ospina selected a rap song from his home country - J Balvin's 'Tranquila' Theo Walcott opted for a 1996 summer jam - LL Cool J's laid back R&B song 'Loungin''
8108
The fish breaks the surface of the water and the boy bravely puts his hand into the lake to catch it .
‘They are also great table fish, served up in most restaurants.
8109
The moment came on the second day of Margrethe's birthday celebrations which began last night with a gala dinner at the Christiansborg Palace and continued with a procession this morning.
8110
Google has big plans for its image search.
He went on to say that our dependence on technology could lead to the 21st century being a new dark age in history, with any evidence of our culture lost in a digital 'black hole'.
8111
Spartak Moscow supporters have been banned from attending the club's next two away games .
Spartak are currently sixth in the Russian Premier League.
8112
Fury would have noticed.
Fury, one of British boxing's biggest characters, is known for being outspoken and could attempt to get under Wladimir's skin.
8113
Lauren Quigley of Stockport Metro hit 25.22 for silver ahead of Rebecca Guy, who clocked in at 25.49.
8114
Governor Songpol said the ferry was equipped with fire extinguishers, 'but in this case it appeared [the crew] were not able to control the blaze and this must be investigated again'.
8115
Manning gave a shout out to Rage Against the Machine fontman Tom Morello, who heaped praise on her in turn .
She does not have direct access to social media from prison .
8116
Last month, the European Parliament voted in favour of a cap at 0.2 per cent of the transaction value for debit cards and 0.3 per cent for credit cards (file photo)
8117
They spent the day exploring the ship together with the boys hearing first-hand just what life was like on board a real battleship.
8118
And with Gerrard departing this summer Liverpool would be loathed to let another local lad leave, especially with Glen Johnson's expected departure leaving a gap to fill at full back.
8119
Icardi on the ball during a Serie A match between Sampdoria and Inter Milan in Genoa last month .
'If they don’t want to, I will stay in Milan where I am really good and I’m happy.
8120
Mabbutt's diabetes had led to a clogged artery in the limb and doctors warned him it was 'touch and go' on whether it would have to be amputated.
8121
United were leading 1-0 after 79 minutes when Rooney spun brilliantly before hammering a half-volley with his right-foot past Brad Guzan.
I think we in the squad are following him always.
8122
Nine of the top 15 companies are in the tech sector, according to salary data compiled by the recruiting company Glassdoor.com.
The median compensation there is $182,000.
Other than Google, Netflix, Mozilla and TrueCar, most people have likely not heard of the companies of the highest-paid list.
8123
Radios would switch stations unexpectedly, the children became ill and there were even sightings of a witch-like figure at night.
8124
His representatives are meeting the Italian club's officials to outline what proposals can be put forward to City.
Stoke are discussing a summer deal for Barcelona B forward Mohamed el Ouriachi.
8125
Hatton would be knocked out but there was more of the same when he went back to the MGM Grand to suffer the same fate against Pacquiao two years later.
8126
In New Hampshire, she had spent much of her time railing against America's richest '1 per cent,' but ultimately took the priciest seat to Washington that she could buy without chartering a private plane.
8127
We were told by Mooresey [coach Peter Moores] that Paul had been let go between sessions in the practice game against Saint Kitts.
RICHIE BENAUD .
8128
New Balance WX711 Sneaker at Zappos .
Miss Middleton has previously told of how she sticks to 'wholesome carbs' when preparing for sporting events .
8129
But while Lian Marshall - pictured among the treats - does have two chocolate-loving daughters, this incredible bounty is not for them.
Instead the eggs will be donated to Sheffield Children's Hospital .
8130
Charlton's Frederic Bulot celebrates with his manager Guy Luzon after opening the scoring against Bolton .
8131
'It's a new challenge for me to come over there and it's one I'm really looking forward to,' Tilse said.
8132
Christine Thomas said her daughter only met with school officials after the doctored photo was released.
Thomas said: 'I was upset.
8133
Greg Tansey duly converted the resulting penalty.
Griffiths shows off his acrobatic skills during Celtic's eventual surprise defeat by Inverness .
8134
Still, Williams improved to 20-0 this year and 16-0 in Fed Cup for her career.
'The wind helped me,' Errani said.
'Against a player like her it favored me.'
8135
Southampton striker Graziano Pelle had his chances but he failed to take them as Southampton lost to Stoke City at the Britannia Stadium .
8136
Nacho Monreal 7 (Burnley vs ARSENAL)
A moment of history for Bolasie as he became the first Palace player to score a hat-trick in the Premier League.
8137
.
Spain - Zumaia to Zarauz via theN-634 .
'Our winning road gives drivers the right balance of tight corners with longer stretches of road.
8138
Unlikely heartthrob:
Ed Milibond:
Such adoration is a feeling that Miliband may not have expected but now might be getting used to.
8139
Palermo's Paulo Dybala has attracted interest from a number of leading clubs in Europe .
This is the country that made me famous and I would love to stay in Serie A,' he said.
8140
Video recorded by the activist group showed the ship sinking just hours after it said Thunder issued a distress signal on Monday afternoon.
8141
Eve Stratford, 22, a Playboy bunny, was stabbed between eight and 12 times when she was murdered on the evening of 18 March 1975 .
Lynne Weedon (right) was beaten over the head with a blunt object.
8142
Iker Casillas claims he will stay and fight for the No 1 jersey rather than leave Real Madrid in the summer .
I will strive and I will fight for the position.
8143
Speaking to Buzzfeed, photographer Mr Wardenclyffe said one of the anti-racism protesters stood out in front of the rest to stop him from getting through.
8144
But Mr Miliband argues that non-dom tests 'are not very rigorous' and can be granted to people who have a burial plot or property abroad.
8145
If it's an Afghani strain that's got you excited, then opt for sliced cucumber, onion and dill salad, fried aubergines, and thinly layered garlic cream.
8146
Ms Darlow said Islam’s messages on WhatsApp and BlackBerry messenger show he was trying to radicalise others at the same time.
8147
The pair were pitted against another couple of pandas, Yi Bao and Jin Xin, who only managed one minute and 20 seconds of love-making.
8148
To minimize jostling in the cargo plane the juveniles were transported in small groups within special bison boxes.
8149
Professor Hillman has also advised that if you are waking up tired and fatigued it could be due to sleep apnoea which is often associated with snoring.
8150
The boy was crying out for help.
The Public Security Bureau is further investigating the incident.
Deng was having dinner nearby and when he returned saw the damage to his car.
8151
Manny Pacquiao has revealed his colourful mouthpiece ahead of his bout with Floyd Mayweather .
Pacquiao (centre) shares a joke with members of his team as he shows of his mouth guard .
8152
What can Cape Verde offer visitors?
Boa Vista beach, pictured, is one of the main attractions on the small island of Cape Verde .
8153
Robson accepted he 'misinterpreted' Mr Robson's actions that night, when his already emotional state had been heightened by alcohol, and realises now he should not have hit him.
8154
The intensity of the roadside fire is truly terrifying, the traffic just yards away from the flames .
A local healthcare ministry official said more than 900 .
8155
Wesley said the sacrifices of Christ allowed the congregation to be forgiven for their own sins.
The pups are expected to make an appearance at the event... but not in bunny ears .
8156
She also said that she has a friend in the United Kingdom and she thought it would brighten up his day if he saw the image online.
8157
Get the best players on the pitch.
The back four doesn't convince but Jagielka and Baines struggled at the World Cup and Johnson is now out of the reckoning.
8158
Jack Johnson v James J Jeffries . July 4, 1910 in Reno, Nevada .
Jack Johnson, as the first black world heavyweight champion, was the bane of the white supremacists in America in the early 1900s.
8159
Sam Gallagher put an injury-hit season behind him by inspiring Southampton to Under-21 Premier League Cup glory, netting an exceptional goal which he hopes caught Ronald Koeman's eye.
8160
Pippen was arrested at the same place on April 10 for public intoxication after getting into a fight with the hotel's security.
8161
I just wanted to get away from it all, and I feel like it's been a good thing.'
All eyes have been on Tiger Woods' latest comeback, which could take the pressure off of McIlroy .
8162
Dedicated employee:
On a scarier note, Eddingfield says she once was closing up the restaurant when a man started knocking on the door with a gun.
8163
Sentencing for a first offense in Vermont range from a license suspension of 90 days to up to two years in prison and a maximum fine of $750.
8164
Today Labour claims the police are 'struggling to keep up' with the rise in child sexual exploitation, terrorism and online crime while public safety is being 'put at risk' by a chaotic prison and probation system.
8165
In 2012, that number was 94.9 percent.
Researchers found that the childlessness rate for women 30 to 39 in 2014 was 23.9 percent, up from 22.9 percent in 2012.
8166
The defender made the headlines for the right reasons during Ludogorets Champions League play-off against Steaua Bucharest back in August, when he saved two penalties during the shoot-out - after their goalkeeper had been sent off.
8167
6.
7. COLOURED SUNGLASSES .
HAREM TROUSERS .
Reality star Kim Kardashian previously championed the wearing of harem trousers back in 2009 .
8168
The Dairy Milk Spectacular will contain one row each of: Dairy Milk Caramel, Dairy Milk Fruit & Nut, Dairy Milk Whole Nut, Dairy Milk Oreo, Dairy Milk Daim, and Dairy Milk Turkish .
8169
In a new video released by the champion's 'Money Team', Mayweather's personal chef reveals that he loves his snacks, swapping healthy food for sweets and fizzy drinks on 'snack day'.
8170
'Balamuthia's mortality rate is very, very high.
A scan of her brain in September revealed what doctors first thought might be cancer.
A test revealed it was Balamuthia mandrillaris.
8171
Scholes, pictured celebrating in January 2012, was known for ability to score goals from midfield .
'I did it before in Bilbao, and I am superstitious.
8172
David Cameron and Boris Johnson warned of a looming 'constitutional crisis' last night after Scotland's former First Minister Alex Salmond was caught boasting: 'I'm writing Labour's budget.'
8173
'We wanted to restore the building in a way that allows us to serve the community while celebrating its history.'
8174
Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews dubbed the plans 'simply evil' on Saturday morning, while insisting the individuals 'do not represent any faith, culture or religion'.
8175
In 2005, Ollie Halls and Emma Giffard of the Vintage Mobile Cinema Company bought it for just £1,200 and brought it to Devon, where they carefully restored it with the help of friends.
8176
If you want to take a risk, vote for the other man.
’ He said Labour’s ‘disastrous’ plans for higher taxes and borrowing would risk the stability of people’s lives.
8177
Japan's defence minister has been forced to assure MPs that the country has never been invaded by aliens.
8178
Kirchner used the anniversary - commemorated in Argentina as the Day of the Veterans and Fallen of the Malvinas Islands War - to criticise Britain's announcement it will beef up its defence of the islands .
8179
Despite the outrage expressed by parents, the eighth grade boy was allowed to return to school last month, and the District Attorney has confirmed no charges will be laid, saying the stories were 'horror fiction'
8180
Now a new basketball superstar is on the rise.
The pint-sized player scored a succession of hoops before running around dribbling two basketballs .
8181
She claimed that she had put her hand over the boy's nose and mouth to put him to sleep, police say.
Recent posts on her Facebook page appear to show her going through an emotional period.
8182
Ms Perry praised the work of doctors at Lady Cilento where her son was treated, describing their work as 'amazing'.
Ms Perry said.
8183
A nasa mission next decade will seek to search for water emanating from Europa - and see if its oceans are habitable.
8184
The stylish ad is filmed entirely in black and white, with just a slick of pink visible on the woman's lips.
She gently ties it around his eyes creating a blindfold .
8185
#NervousExcitement #geldsracer #thejourneyisthereward'
Jenson Button is training for the London Marathon and went for a run with his wife  in Hyde Park on Tuesday .
8186
Treasure chest:
She added: 'The food he prepared is enough for me for one year and every time I think of this my heart is warm.'
Well-arranged:
8187
Former Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson revealed why he rates Cristiano Ronaldo above Lionel Messi while speaking to John Parrott over a frame of snooker.
8188
Mr Allen still has a personal hand-written copy of the recipe which is believed to be made up of 11 herbs and spices - and is a closely guarded secret by the firm.
8189
Guitar Hero Live will be released in the autumn for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Wii U.
8190
The red and black luggage moves along the conveyor after being taken from the plane .
The arm extends out to separate the luggage in the hope it arrives with its owner .
8191
Salford's Rangi Chase could face a ban of up to eight matches following a dangerous tackle .
All eight players are available to play for their clubs on Easter Monday.
8192
Meanwhile, Mr Kehoe said the HS2 station near the airport would be so convenient for the capital it would rival the likes of Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted.
8193
And the Portuguese star, and World Player of the Year, took to Twitter to share his celebrations with his many followers, posing with a bike and encouraging them to start riding.
8194
She was convicted in 2000 for federal mail fraud in Hawaii after she used the Jenny Craig Corp's corporate travel account to purchase plane tickets and then sold the tickets privately for $500 apiece.
8195
Firefighter Miguel Meza (left) who dove into the water in San Pedro after a car carrying a family of four plunged into the water has been hailed a hero on the Facebook page of City Councilman Joe Buscaino (right)
8196
It comes after Blackpool's  kitman Steve Wales quit in March, forcing club secretary Chris Hough to take up the role.
8197
Mother Margie Brooks, whose son was in the class, told the local station that she was horrified by what the teacher told the students and felt the school waited too long to deal with the problem .
8198
When he got to China he was granted almost celebrity-like status .
Don't judge: 'One of the lessons I learned is never judge a man by his selfies,' Matt Stopera says.
8199
Miss Nigam would stay up late studying, resulting in sleep deprivation and a negative impact on her performance at school - which caused further depression and anxiety.
8200
Swansea are also keen to sign a left-back with Leicester's Jeffrey Schlupp among the players being considered.
8201
Look at Alex Pritchard, on loan from Tottenham.
The 23-year-old starred for Northern Ireland last week, and his manager says it is down to his loan spell .
8202
Three former managers of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation filed a suit last week alleging the company paid employees and patients kickbacks for patient referrals in an effort to boost funding from federal health programs (file photo)
8203
Veteran Burnley defender Michael Duff believes manager Sean Dyche could one day take charge of England.
Burnley are next in action on Sunday when they host Tottenham.
8204
According to the World Health Organisation, obesity in China is a major problem, with rates of the illness reaching 20 per cent in some cities .
8205
Hundreds of spectators looked on as the 52-year-old free-climber scaled the 75-storey tower .
The climbing feat is not the first to be achieved by the French Spiderman in Dubai.
8206
On television this week Mr Carlisle, who has publicly struggled with depression, revealed the scars he still bears from his suicide attempt are a 'constant reminder' of his good fortune in surviving.
8207
Manchester City have 'let themselves down' this season and the squad have had 'a lot of honest conversations' since the 4-2 defeat at Manchester United nine days ago, says England goalkeeper Joe Hart.
8208
For such a massive lamb, a natural birth like that is pretty remarkable.'
The previous record for the largest lamb in the UK was held by one called Joan born at 24lbs.
8209
Much of Trent's wealth, he said, had recently been eroded – not least by the legal battle with her former husband over the songs, which Gregory claimed has cost about £20,000.
8210
‘With a broken heart we returned home and decided to raise him and try to give him as comfortable a life that we can.'
Mukesh is still hoping for a miracle.
8211
Other Twitter users noted that the highly-coveted items from the Lilly Pulitzer collection will be returned to Target and restocked if everyone bands together and refuses to buy from second hand sellers.
8212
'Kane, Mason and Bentaleb are very important players in the team but it is not only these three are who very important for the team this season.'
8213
French born Jeanne Calment currently holds the record, having lived to age 122.5.
Kaminskiy is hopeful people will soon start living to 150 years of age with longevity science improving.
8214
Ipswich (4-3-3): Bialkowski; Chambers, Smith, Berra, Fryers; Skuse, Tabb, Bishop (Chaplow 57); Varney (Clarke 90), Sears (Wood 79), Murphy.
8215
Clint Eastwood's son Scott will be shirtless in cinemas from this June .
29-year-old Tom Hughes will be appearing in The Game on BBC2 from this Thursday .
8216
The philosopher set up a similar 1,000-year camera at the Arizona State University Art Museum's sculpture garden as part of an effort to capture how the next millennium change Tempe, Arizona.
8217
Although Massimon Cellini, Leeds’ banned owner, has subsequently claimed Thomson had used abusive language towards sporting director Nicola Salerno, it was only another spanner in the works for this once-proud club who need stability more than anything.
8218
Indonesian lawyer for the death row pair, Inneke Kusuma, told reporters the effort was not aimed at delaying the executions, but clarifying a prisoner's rights.
8219
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini has admitted for the first time he could be sacked if he finishes outside the Champions League places this season.
8220
Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff has scheduled a hearing for Robson and another of Jackson's alleged child victims, James Safechuck, on Tuesday that could decide if their respective claims proceed.
8221
'You can win the cup, the league and the Champions League but it only takes a minute for something to go wrong.
'Barcelona are very much in form.
8222
Teachers are helping pupils to cheat by giving advice during exams, wrongly bumping up marks and even writing coursework, it has been revealed.
8223
In addition, Marc Wabafiyebazu faces charges of threatening a police officer while in custody, according to a separate police report.
8224
Williams, who was with a baby, asked the teens to be quiet, and soon after was sucker punched and attacked.
The students dispersed soon after, and on Wednesday police made their first arrest.
8225
He was absolutely upset, who would want that?
In the episode, he cheerily suggests several barbaric-sounding surgeries for Jacqueline, as well as on Kimmy.
8226
Silverthorn was deemed guilty this week for driving over the limit and crashing his car into the Niagara River on December 29.
He's due back in court Monday for a felony hearing.
8227
In the most recent photo, which he posted to Instagram on Thursday, Sherman and Moss are seen cradling Rayden, with the football star writing; 'Best part of Life.'
8228
They had been drinking beer and gin and tonics before leaving Aberdeen Airport, then spent the day meeting former players at a corporate event in a hotel in Manchester.
8229
In difficult conditions, with strong winds and a distinct chill in South Carolina, birdies were hard to come by but Every carded six before a bogey on the 18th, while McDowell matched him only in reverse after bogeying the first.
8230
EA Sports have revealed the first gameplay details for their latest golf game EA Sports Rory McIlroy PGA Tour which is due out in July.
The game offers multiple ways to play, including arcade controls where the left stick is used to control power and accuracy with the ability to add spin to the shot while the ball is in the air.
8231
For many of the residents of Santa Barbara d'Oeste and neighboring Americana in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state, having Confederate ancestry is a point of pride that's celebrated in high style at the annual 'Festa dos Confederados,' or 'Confederates Party' in Portuguese.
8232
Mr Spence said that, as well as music, colour and even the weight of cutlery are factors which can combine to make a dining experience more enjoyable.
8233
Bennett School District Superintendent Dennis Veal would not say if the school district was liable for health insurance payments to cover the child's treatment.
8234
He continued running when he moved to London to become the Bank of England chief in 2013, and is known to sometimes run from his home to Bank’s headquarters in the City of London to avoid the traffic.
8235
The next minute John is covered in blood.
John has never had trouble before and neither of us can understand why these people would do something as low as this.
8236
U.S. Open champion Marin Cilic was eliminated in the second round of the Barcelona Open on Wednesday, losing to Victor Estrella of the Dominican Republic 6-4, 6-4.
8237
Nevertheless, a few weeks later the sisters were re-
Svitlana made headlines in Florida in 2010 when she crashed a car that was registered in Melgen's wife's name.
8238
As an artist and photographer was renowned for his panoramic pictures, captured along the stretch of the River Thames - featuring images from the Houses of Parliament to Magdalen Bridge in Oxford.
8239
Mr Armani declared that a homosexual man doesn't need to dress in a camp manner..
When questioned on women opting for plastic surgery, the designer described it as 'idiocy...
8240
An assortment of Apple's new watch lies on display during a preview day at the Apple Store in Covent Garden in London.
'Will the Apple Watch change your life?
8241
He said: 'I will speak to Raheem.
Nitrous oxide is a gas that can make people feel relaxed, euphoric and giggly, leading to its nickname 'laughing gas'.
8242
Catering to busy women on the go - like Olivia herself - the tote features an integral juice pack and cable paths so you can charge your phone and tablet on the move.
8243
Carlos Tevez (left) is worshipped by Juventus fans and has scored six Champions League goals this season .
8244
Footage shows a suicide bomber's car being catapulted into the air after apparently hitting a road-side bomb while trying to launch an attack on Kurdish Peshmerga forces near Kirkuk in northern Iraq .
8245
'Last year's World Championships was so frustrating because I sacrificed doing a few races before then because I wanted to chuck everything at retaining that title.
8246
The anti-ageing doctor had previously warned in 2007 about the prescription of steroids, and came to the attention of authorities again when a patient had the drugs seized when travelling overseas.
8247
A Fox Sports spokeswoman told AAP that they had only become aware of the photograph on Monday and it was unacceptable.
Only in Aus!
8248
A Marine Corps helicopter was forced to make an emergency landing on a Southern California beach Wednesday morning .
Clean up:
'It's huge!
8249
The Chelsea forward set up the 'Didier Drogba Foundation in Africa,' as he hopes to inspire the next generation of footballers in Africa to fall in love with the game.
8250
Kim echoed the sentiment: 'This statue reminds visitors of the strong female figures in Armenian history.
The Kardashian family tree has rich historical roots in Armenia .
8251
He was born in Melbourne, Australia, but was in the United States on a baseball scholarship when 17-year-old Chancey Allen Luna (pictured walking into court on Thursday) allegedly murdered him .
8252
Previous (individual) Premier League honours: Player of the Month (2)
Hazard (left) has been a menace to opponents all season with his trickery and high workrate .
8253
No comments have been given by the authorities regarding the cause of the incident.
It's unclear if this is a military tank but people inside the vehicle wear camouflage uniforms .
8254
Real Madrid want the yellow card shown to their star forward Ronaldo to be rescinded and have appealed .
We will appeal.'
8255
Motherwell general manager Alan Burrows told Sportsmail his club will make a stand if they finish 11th .
8256
Scotland's Bradley Neil has received the backing of world No 1 Rory McIlroy as he ponders when to turn professional.
He's definitely got the game.
8257
Referee Phil Dowd is surrounded by Chelsea players during their match with Tottenham .
Teams are given a rating out of seven for their treatment of the other team during the match.
8258
‘The situation is worrying.
McShane got Hull back in the game before David Meyler was sent off and Gomis finished the job in stoppage time.
8259
Zeke Celello burst into tears when Hillary Clinton announced that she was running .
While he has yet to articulate a policy platform, the youngster is clearly not short on ambition.
8260
Walsh delete the post after seeing the riots in Baltimore, Maryland, on television .
Walsh said that seeing protesters throwing rocks led her to the conclusion they should be shot .
8261
Adam Gemili says Usain Bolt is a joker on the circuit and gives him great advice .
Bolt has been beaten before, which shows he is only human.
8262
A recruiting army sergeant raped a female cadet after telling her cousin 'I hope she is as sweet as she looks', a court heard today.
Earlier Mee’s alleged victim told the court she had ‘no reason to lie’.
8263
Subs not used: Douchez, Camara, Digne,  Bahebeck.
Iniesta was in sensational form for Barcelona before replaced at half time by veteran midfielder Xavi .
8264
It came just a day after it was announced that Swindon in Wiltshire will become the global production hub for the next generation five door Civic, supported by a new £200million investment.
8265
The pictures, which create an uncanny likeness to the fire breathing dragon slain by St George, the patron Saint of England, were captured at dusk above Briones Regional Park, in California .
8266
But some Redditors defended the doctor's note system.
I never required any documentation, until I noticed one of my guys has "allergies" mostly on Mondays.'
8267
McIlroy grew up watching Woods and is now on his way to emulating his hero .
Speaking about 'Ripple', McIlroy said: 'As a kid, I looked up to Tiger.
8268
'Republic eventually cancelled the flight, and the Company repositioned another aircraft so passengers could continue on to their destination.
8269
There has been some disquiet from Yorkshire that four of their players are in England’s squad but not in the team and they are keen to get Adil Rashid back soon.
8270
However, he said that had she revealed the extent of her psychosis he would have diagnosed her with schizophrenia and given her the treatment she needed.
8271
They had to put her in a crate and get a man to carry her up the stairs, reports Press of Atlantic City.
She will hopefully lose a pound a month after being placed on a special diet.
8272
Pink is the new colour of choice for high-achieving women in the world of politics and showbusiness and the style is now spreading to the high street.
8273
Stokes overstepped the line when he thought he had England's fifth wicket of the day in Antigua .
‘Stokes is trying to be a very English-type bowler,’ Vaughan said.
8274
It is 43 months since Everton last lost a 3pm Saturday home game, a 1-0 defeat against QPR which marked Tony Fernandes' first match in charge as the visitors' new owner.
8275
Bridgett Jones wrote: 'If I had a dollar for every time someone asked me about my diary...' referring to the famous chick flick character.
8276
Nicole McDonough (above) was arrested in December after reportedly having sex with an 18-year-old student.
Last month, she was suspended from her teaching job without pay.
8277
The Australian pair were killed by a firing squad on Bali's 'death island', Nusa Kambangan .
Reformed drug smugglers Andrew Chan (left) and Myuran Sukumaran (right) were put to death .
8278
In April last year, details of salacious messages sent by top Tory official Iain Corby on a gay dating service were revealed.
8279
Diane Tran has taken a plea deal and will testify against Van.
They say he was found having suffered 30 blows from a meat cleaver, reports the Orange County Register.
8280
A woman sports an uncoordinated look, with pineapple print leggings, glitter plimsolls, a fringe slogan top and other apparel emblazoned with a marijuana symbol .
8281
The report cited concerns about communications between air traffic control and other agencies, and said the airport operator issued a safety bulletin with a reminder of emergency protocols and procedures.
8282
He said: 'We are the first Council in the country to get really tough on dog mess and pet owners who do not act in a socially responsible way.
8283
Wenger was confronted by an angry fan during the poor performance at St Mary's on New Year's Day .
He said that Bryant's actions were 'emotional' rather than planned.
8284
In 2005, Shaun Murphy came through qualifying and went on to lift the title.
Selby's facial expressions say iy all as he crashes out of the World Championship at the Crucible .
8285
The restaurant admitted to the mishap but blamed Ms Dodds for leaving her daughter and a friend unattended and going outside for a cigarette .
8286
As DIY season approaches and the spring clean begins, Amanda Lamb claims that it is the small touches in a home that make a real difference.
8287
O'Porter grew to public recognition thanks to her quirky documentaries, but in recent years has focused on her passion for vintage clothing.
8288
A prisoner who has finally been freed after spending half his life in jail for a crime he did not commit has said all he wants to do is spent time with his wife and go fishing.
8289
It's really good for us to be near that and I'm really proud to take part.
That was in March 2014 against Tottenham when Tomas Rosicky scored the winner.
8290
Footage shows three-year-old Luiz Antonio from Brazil being presented with a fanciful dish of octopus gnocchi at the dinner table.
Yuck!
Why?
8291
'It was probably a points victory but we go to Grenada now.'
For all England's frustration, the West Indies will view the result as a morale boost.
8292
Now 20, Lexi Thompson can boast six professional championships and most recently, a provocative magazine cover.
The decision has sparked a mixed response from readers.
8293
But the elder orangutan quickly returned, at which point Kecil quietened down and scooted over to join her, reports the Chicago Sun Times.
8294
A retired major general is among 1,000 British service personnel requiring psychiatric treatment after taking an anti-malarial drug issued by the Ministry of Defence.
8295
'Glenn has had to change his game a little bit and he goes to Sunderland, goals per minute, as the best striker in the Premier League,' Pardew added.
8296
'However, they didn't bank on the ATM being fitted with a hidden camera and we've managed to secure clear footage of the thieves.
8297
NIGEL PEARSON (Leicester)
If it applies a bit more pressure on other sides around us, fine also.
Our fuel is about staying in the Premier League.
8298
In the description for the blog, Lea says that the goal of the project is 'to celebrate these living - and thriving - examples of female success, these rebels against the numbers and the gender norms.'
8299
St Mirren skipper Steven Thompson has apologised to team-mate John McGinn after accidentally spearing him with a training ground pole.
8300
He claimed it was needed to provide accommodation for a worker in connection with a beef farming business on the site.
8301
The victim was led outside by her friends and told the first police officer on the scene that she had been raped, though she admitted that she did not want to involve the authorities.
8302
Despite the best efforts of medics Tommy, from Southampton, died from his injuries on August 25.
She is due back before the crown court in June.
8303
Not everyone is as interested as you are about what [deleted] does so give us all a break.
Ms Rusciano added the 'mean' letter represents the 'Holy Trinity' of anxiety.
8304
She said the family was struggling with not knowing where William is or what happened to him.
She said she hoped whoever had him was looking after him.
8305
Martina Hingis will play her first singles match since 2007 on Saturday when they faces Poland's Agnieszka Radwanksa in the Fed Cup for Switzerland.
8306
A recent poll by The Wisden Cricketer magazine attracted an astonishing 12,000 votes.
On TV commentary days, even Daphne is not allowed to iron his shirts.
8307
Jordan Spieth wears his new green jacket after winning the Masters at Augusta on Sunday .
And he’s obviously a wonderful player and now a Masters champion.’
8308
Pietersen was later pictured leaving the ground just before 2pm and is expected to step-up his county rehabilitation with  a three-day warm-up against Oxford MCCU on April 12.
8309
Technology billionaire Elon Musk pursued a sale of his struggling electric-car company Tesla to Google for $6 billion before its share price rocketed in May 2013, according to a new biography .
8310
Shoppers caught up in the potentially deadly incident were unnerved by the shooting.
Wigram Street in Harris Park was closed by police as the search for the gunman got underway .
8311
But the girl from Elgin in Moray, Scotland, was given a taste of her own medicine when he pretended that also wanted to break up.
play video .
8312
.'There are always going to be differences of opinion in style' he said before explaining, to applause, that he doesn't believe public figures must answer politely no matter how nasty a question or comment might be .
8313
Jake Livermore of Hull City, Sebastian Larsson from Sunderland and Newcastle United summer signing Daryl Janmaat make up the rest of the selection.
8314
This Anzac Day Australians took advantage of the opportunity to play the century-old tradition of two-up in pubs and clubs all around the country .
8315
My client was forced to come here,' said Parker, who added that the prosecution had sent the defence its committal papers - the case documents - too late.
8316
After ascending the mountain,  Kim Jong-Un told soldiers that the alleged climb had given him mental energy 'more powerful than nuclear weapons'
8317
The SEC said in a news release that FLIR reported the misconduct and cooperated with the investigation.
Officials with the Wilsonville-based company echoed those remarks.
8318
Her teenage daughter then climbed on top of the girl and continued to fight her, according to the report.
Bennett was released from jail Sunday on $10,500 bail.
8319
Two men accused of setting up a stall on London's Oxford Street and handing out ISIS propaganda leaflets to shoppers have pleaded not guilty to terror offences.
8320
Romero said the uproar over the hunting trip, combined with a string of health problems and a corruption scandal implicating his youngest daughter Cristina, created the 'perfect storm' which pushed Juan Carlos to abdicate.
8321
The live-in tailor was demanded to make all the ski and apres ski outfits to a group of guests’ personal tastes and cost £1,700 to hire.
8322
However, Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders said he would not be prosecuted because his deteriorating dementia means there could be no criminal conviction.
8323
The memorial event marked the invasion of Denmark and Norway by Nazi troops on April 9, 1940.
The Crown Princess placed a wreath at a war memorial before attending a service .
8324
Angel Gowns created a replica dress for the family to have in their house and Ms Cox says she looks at it every day to remember her daughter .
8325
Police discovered the bodies Monday evening around 6:50pm after getting a call from Christine Fradeneck's sister, saying she was worried about her sister after not hearing from her all day.
8326
Lifeboats and helicopters were scrambled to help locate the missing plane today after it vanished around 30 miles east of Oban.
8327
'The Brody WorkLounge creates a shelter from visual distractions, provides privacy and provides an enhanced sense of psychological security.'
8328
Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva is relishing the prospect of a long-awaited Wembley appearance after injury robbed him of the chance three years ago.
8329
Bernard is pictured here catching snowflakes on the Colonnade of the White House in this February 2014 photo captured by the building's official photographer.
8330
After much French blue language, the driver managed to complete a U-turn on the seaweed covered, sloping slipway and head back to go the long way round.
8331
Portrait: A painting of Mr Hardy holding a longbow, reflecting his interest in medieval history .
Role: He has frequently played Winston Churchill in a series of television dramas .
8332
The five-year-old namesake grandson of famed college basketball coach Jerry Tarkanian has suffered a stroke, his family said.
8333
'I believe that at the time of the killing Mr Costa's brain was compromised by dementia and when you add to this alcohol that led to a confused state,' he said.
8334
Ms Eden said the woman was saying 'horrible and hurtful things'.
The group's founder, Mariam Veiszadeh, told Daily Mail Australia incidents of abuse against Muslim women were becoming increasingly common.
8335
I’m not fighting against them.
The Daily Times reported that Manhart now intends to hold a pro-military counter-demonstration in the town on Wednesday.
8336
An online campaign for Woolworths has caused outrage on social media .
This meme shows former Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd .
8337
Built in the 1880s by RA Briggs, known as Bungalow Briggs, the property is not all split over one level as modern bungalows are today.
An architect's drawing of the property in the 20th Century.
8338
There will be a capacity of 7,000 for July's match against France at London's Queen's Club, but well under 3,000 tickets may be available to the kind of supporters who created such an electric atmosphere in Glasgow for last month's first round.
8339
According to the woman, police told her and some friends that they were required to pay for use of a palm tree .
8340
'Haven't got a clue': The 60-year-old was also told he had not shown a pay and display ticket in his car, even though he has a valid car parking permit on his dashboard (pictured)
8341
Among the matters he asked about was the history of founder Neville Cooper, who was convicted and spent nearly a year imprisoned on sex abuse charges in 1995 .
8342
Michael Kimmel, 40, was taken into custody by Kentucky State Police on Monday evening after they received a 911 call about an intoxicated horse rider.
8343
Kirklees Magistrates' Court heard that Dixon had agreed to walk the dog, Tempa, for its owner Amanda Hamer who had been unable to do so after she suffered severe whiplash in early 2014.
8344
The step up to Test level, however, has seen Cook struggling and Jerome Taylor looked anything but mediocre in sending both him and Trott back with just 20 on the board as England endured a rocky start to their second innings.
8345
Bonner (left) and his Spurs side are keeping busy off the pitch as they prepare to defend their NBA title .
8346
Bayern say the announcement was unexpected.
Muller-Wohlfahrt has worked with the German national team as well as athletes including Usain Bolt and Boris Becker.
8347
'They need to be voting and putting people in position to make the change and make the decisions that need to be made.'
8348
Wayne Rooney swivels to blast a right-footed shot into the top corner of Aston Villa's net on Saturday .
'He couldn't run fast enough to pull his hamstring could Charlie'.
8349
We were going for 10 days in Lanzarote over Easter.
After returning from the holiday to Lanzarote, the four-year-old boy was bought a replacement toy gun .
8350
Pollsters refuse to predict whether it will be the Labour Party's Ed Miliband (left) or David Cameron (right) in the top job after votes are cast.
8351
Scientists in Belgium say all sweet potatoes (stock image shown) contain 'foreign DNA'.
And the researchers say sweet potatoes all over the world contain this genetic modification.
8352
Talented clergyman:
The priest said he turned to the church before chasing his singing dream as he wanted to 'make sense of life'
8353
'A few passengers got out to help too.'
The group managed to roll the huge bus - which can carry up to 80 passengers - through the streets of Dover .
8354
The Keshwa Chaca remains thanks to local villagers who rebuild the bridge each year using the same techniques as their Inca ancestors.
8355
'I was so very pleased to see the outcome we got from the new diet,' she said.
The diet's developer said blueberries are 'one of the more potent foods in terms of protecting the brain'
8356
The viewer believes he is conducting a homophobic rant, as he mentions: 'They are challenging social conventions, and this can be dangerous'
8357
Guy Macpherson-Grant, whose family own the distillery, said: 'I think it's a tremendous honour that the Duke and Duchess of Rothesay made time in their busy diaries to come here.
8358
He is a very talented player but the English club buys very often but seldom sells.'
Mancini said: 'Yaya has played in every top League, apart from Germany and Italy.
8359
She is deeply involved in the War Widows Guild of Queensland, the Gallipoli Medical Research Foundation and volunteers at hospitals.
8360
Doon remarked that it resembled a 'birds' nest in the sky', albeit one that serves traditional Thai cuisine.
Before leaving Datai, we squeezed in a trip to the spa, which is open to the jungle.
8361
Lazio face Massimiliano Allegri's (pictured) Juventus, and will cut the gap to nine points with victory .
The Granata are in eighth place and play at Sassuolo on Sunday.
8362
Geoffrey Kondogbia has impressed Liverpool scouts this season in Europe and Ligue 1 .
Kondogbia has represented France three times and has made 23 appearances for Monaco this season.
8363
Google has announced a tool that locates missing handsets simply by searching for the term 'find my phone' on the site's homepage.
8364
A Spanish woman found dead alongside her British partner and two children in Gibraltar is believed to have killed her family before taking her own life.
8365
He’s a slippery customer and he is there to make me look back and he did a good job of that.
Joshua experienced few problems on his way to another routine victory in Newcastle .
8366
The new menu contains five new food options - two 340-calorie cheesecake-filled donuts, one 380-calorie loaded bagel, one 640-calorie chicken-filled pretzel bun and a 'low fat' 210-calorie steak and cheese wrap.
8367
Claiming innocence: Suspected murderer Robert Durst appeared in court on Tuesday and pleaded guilty to a new charge of gun possession.
8368
Man of the match Nicky Law also noted the improving relationship between players and supporters.
Three wins on the spin now and the boys are buzzing.'
8369
Lance Armstrong has said the World Anti-Doping Agency and others are 'owed an apology' from him for cheating during his cycling career - but noted that the agency's chief rebuffed efforts to meet back in 2013.
8370
I don't think that there's enough threat or a goalscoring threat to give a penalty.
The Everton players protest but Michael Oliver deemed Coleman's handball deliberate, and gave a penalty .
8371
Their twins' skin contrast is possible because the girls are non-identical, though it is still highly unlikely .
‘They are shocked when we say yes.’
8372
Similar scenes were evident in Lake Macquarie with this house floating along the waterway .
Thousands of trees have fallen and hundreds of power lines are down.
8373
His style of play has been embraced in Porto, while his popularity in his home country may have been a factor in Casemiro and Tello opting for loan moves in Portugal.
8374
David Ferrer continued the home presence in the tournament as he fended off Swedish wildcard Elias Ymer 6-3, 6-4 to set up a clash with Philipp Kohlschreiber who beat Benoit Paire 6-4, 7-6 (8-6).
8375
It can also be disclosed that he was hooked on 'angel dust', a drug known to cause users to experience violent outbursts and paranoia.
8376
Both homes will need to be modernised, with the second, larger property - also on Egerton Place - on the market for £595,000.
8377
In the past year he has scored four Test centuries .
Gabriel and his team-mates celebrate as Cook leans on his bat in disappointment after being dismissed for 76 .
8378
Clinton's coffee shop visit is part of an effort to make her appear more personable as she chats with ordinary Iowans in living rooms and at small businesses .
8379
She has previously used it as a passport in EU countries.
After the card was stolen, Mrs Craig travelled to Madrid where she was given documentation to prove that her card had been stolen.
8380
In 2011, she launched a website and started selling the Merfins out of Australia, and by the next year they were in stores around the country.
8381
The Dome of the Rock is at the centre of competing claims.
Some apparently date to when the Crusaders controlled the complex in the 12th century, she said.
8382
With 'Iran’s history of cheating,' he said, 'it would be incredibly dangerous not to require Iran to abide by an ‘anytime-anywhere’ inspections regime.'
8383
Taking prescribed medicine is still vitally important to treating cancer, clinicians have stressed .
Just two cups a day is sufficient to make a difference,’ Mrs Rosendahl said.
8384
Subs not used: Amat, Emnes, Oliveira, Tremmel .
Gomis finished them in stoppage time.
Gomis’ first goal is a fantastic piece of skill but he is five yards offside.
8385
Rory McIlroy .
'It was nice to pick off a couple of birdies on the back nine on the par fives and I'm pretty satisfied with the day's work.'
8386
'This was 3.30am.'
Police were called to the restaurant but left after finding no obvious injuries to the animal.
Coco has since been rehomed.
8387
He claims his illness became so serious that after returning home he needed medical treatment and was unable to return to work for EasyJet for more than a month.
8388
The influential Labour Uncut blog says Defence Secretary Michael Fallon’s claim that Red Ed Miliband ‘stabbed his own brother in the back’ to lead Labour, and would do the same to Britain by negotiating away Trident, will help the Tories.
8389
According to the New York Daily News, the fight shown in the brief video clip snowballed until some four hundred people were fighting.
8390
The 2010/11 season saw Tottenham and Chelsea reach the quarter-finals of the Champions League, while Manchester United lost in the final.
8391
The airline said in a news release the captain immediately returned to Seattle-Tacoma International and declared an emergency for priority landing.
8392
Ukip has called for the vote to be held earlier, and today warned under-18s should not be allowed a say.
Overall the EU has an advertising budget that is larger than Coca-Cola.’
8393
Alec Stewart admitted he has had no contact with the ECB over the  role of England cricket director .
'This is a great job that I'm thoroughly enjoying here.
8394
Blackwood frustrates Ben .
Jermaine Blackwood hit his maiden Test match century in his sixth match for the West Indies on Wednesday .
8395
Strapped in: Knight, pictured above on April 8, is being held on a $25million bail.
He has claimed the killing was legal as he was trying to escape .
8396
The 23-year-old, who was capped by his country for the first time last month, looked delighted as he placed a ring on Keyru's finger before kissing and hugging her.
Novoseltsev celebrates FC Rostov's win in style .
8397
In April last year, Ms Edmunds sat her family down and told them she had cancer and doctors had given her just three years to live.
8398
Warning: graphic content .
Protest:
The animal activist is equally known for his outspoken political views and hatred of the British monarchy.
8399
Data Bubble owner Joanne Clayton, pictured, said that they obtained information from people who brought products in a mobility catalogue .
8400
Researchers found that during recovery periods between periods of exercise, it didn’t matter what food was eaten .
8401
The pair were expected to miss the match as it comes, oddly, just three days after the scheduled finish of this Test series on May 5.
8402
'We're feeling very good going into the decisive stretch of the season,' the World Cup winner stated.
'I do not think that the derby is a war,' the 30-year-old added.
8403
Howe was left 'heartbroken', but also frustrated, not least because he felt Callum Wilson deserved a penalty in the second half when he appeared to be fouled by Lewis Buxton.
8404
Users have nicknamed the drug '$5 insanity' because hits often cost less than $10, the Sun-Sentinel reported.
8405
Rangers manager Stuart McCall has had to get used to his players being booed by supporters .
'If it hadn't turned itself round, I don't think we would've got back in the game.'
8406
One of the kitchen walls is decorated with a series of hand-crank egg beaters, which Ensslen began collecting in the 1980s when he moved to New Orleans .
8407
As a piece of PR, Wednesday's BBC interview was of questionable value.
At one point during his chat, Sterling admitted supposed interest from Arsenal is ‘quite flattering’.
8408
Wednesday substitute Bus also had a chance to make a quick impact when he had time inside the area, but his low shot lacked the necessary power to test Smithies who gathered easily.
8409
Motown legend Gladys Knight posted a picture on Twitter with Floyd Mayweather during a training session .
#TheChamp #FloydMayweather.
8410
Police have been urged to launch a fresh investigation into fraud in the 2014 mayoral election, which will be re-run in June.
8411
The vision was captured at a known hoon-hotspot in Yatala on the Gold Coast, where police were alerted after spotting a driver doing burnouts .
8412
She is also co-chairman of Reading Football Club with Madejski.
A club that has twice before been promoted to the Barclays Premier League want to return under manager Steve Clarke.
8413
Fiona said she and a friend were initially concerned after hearing someone cutting into the fly screen at her front door .
8414
Kevin Spacey is reportedly among celebrities paying out to have their name removed from one of the  '.sucks' domains which opened on 30 March .
8415
Supermarket customers in France can add airline tickets to their shopping lists thanks to a unique promotion by a budget airline.
8416
Topshop 'Jenny' Satin Peplum Blazer at Nordstrom .
Stella McCartney Rhea satin blazer at The Outnet (now $784)
'Nutritionally speaking, this is a vitamin bonanza.
8417
He was given an opportunity tonight but we still don’t know whether he will play again.
Thierry Henry was quick to criticise the Mexican striker for the way in which he celebrated his winner .
8418
Waheed Ahmed, 21, from Rochdale was arrested with his aunt, cousins and four children while attempting to get into Syria.
8419
When Price gave birth at Homer G. Phillips Hospital so many years ago, she was told shortly after delivery that the infant had died.
,' Price said.
8420
An elderly woman died after she was unable to call for help because the phone company had disconnected the mobile she kept for emergencies.
8421
It also dismissed research from 1971, which disputed the initial study and stated that the collapse of a bubble inside the joint triggered the pop.
8422
She praised Ukip leader Nigel Farage, adding: 'You can’t knock him.'
But she warned how other candidates have given the party a bad image.
8423
The First Lady's style is always on point whenever she is in public and this time was no different.
Calvin Klein Belted Sheath w/ Contrast Panel at Zappos .
8424
The U.S Park Service, which manages the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, announced last month that the wreckage of the Jennie & Annie was now visible again on the beach halfway between North and South Bar lakes.
8425
They continued to punch and kick the stricken paramedic.
Both Sanchez and Norwood faced a criminal trial where they were jailed for eight and four years respectively.
8426
He warned that if they ignored his request during the trip on September 18, 2011, he would throw them out.
The fine amount is completely unfair given that there was no real injury here.'
8427
'He's without a doubt one of the best front rowers in the comp and that's we want.
Flower falls on Hohaia after first punching the New Zealand international to the ground .
8428
Twitter's so-called 'violations department' suspended approximately 10,000 accounts used by the ISIS militants themselves (pictured) or by supporters of the terror group, on April 2 .
8429
Concerned onlookers called an ambulance for Mr Wu, who is understood to have continued playing the video game while waiting for the paramedics, despite clearly being seriously ill.
8430
Mr Hicks' family, from Bath, took Mr Young to the High Court.
In a police interview, Mr Young said he had become suspicious after hearing Ms Noad joke that the couple were not going to 'do a runner'.
8431
'So if Ed Miliband repeated the economic mistakes of the last Labour government – that he was a part of – he risks a million more people joining the dole queues.'
8432
1.
2.
3.
The Poland striker topped last season's scoring list with 20 goals, while still playing for previous club Borussia Dortmund.
8433
Seeing as it's not his first, then it's the sensible thing to take specialist opinion.
Straight after the incident the players recognised it (the severity of the injury).
8434
One lucky English boxing fan managed to snare a ticket for the big fight at a cost of $7,924 (£5,265) and tweeted his booking confirmation on Thursday night.
8435
When asked whether what he was doing was dangerous, Mr Tabone disagreed saying he never felt unsafe with Gregory.
'I can't go there again,' he said.
8436
Wilson took the fourth frame after Selby's fast start but he was unable to mount a comeback .
Selby and Wilson study the table during Sunday's showpiece final in Beijing, China .
8437
By 2013, the average 75-year-old woman could expect to live another 13 years and five weeks – five weeks less than in 2011, a Government report shows .
8438
'I got hit by a speeding cyclist on the pavement,' said Mrs McVeigh.
Police have launched a hunt for the mystery cyclist who allegedly mowed down the 44-year-old .
8439
Despite this, a third of women worried they were passing on body confidence issues to their children and 41 per cent of children did not think their mother was happy with the way she looked.
8440
The Magpies slipped to a fifth successive Barclays Premier League defeat at Liverpool on Monday, a result that did little to ease fears they could yet be sucked into relegation trouble.
8441
This picture shows two seals shot in Crovie, north-east Scotland in an attempt to protect fish stocks .
A gunman waits for the appearance of seals which could threaten stocks of salmon .
8442
Yuma Fire Department spokesman Mike Erfert said their crews were called out on a possible drowning.
8443
Family man:
Keith and Craig acted as pallbearers at the funeral, as did family friends Russell Crowe and Channel Nine newsreader Peter Overton .
8444
Steven deserves to go out on a high but they've got to do it for themselves.
Fowler believes Sterling, pictured training on Monday, should stay at Liverpool to develop his game .
8445
'I put everything into making sure the under-21s got a positive result and I would like to thank the players and coaching staff for ensuring a great performance and a win, one I will treasure for the rest of my career.
8446
Miller was booked into the Orange County Jail on Thursday after turning herself in and is out on a $3,500 bond, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
8447
Abi titled this post 'day-dreaming nightmare' as she replicates a finger being severed by a potato peeler .
And yet Abi admits that some horror films terrify her.
8448
After being released from Carrow Road, Tierney had established himself as Bolton's first-choice left-back.
8449
She seemed to address her own personal issues with her husband when she quoted Jewish philosopher Joseph Soloveitchik, who wrote that marriage is a place people can go 'when we believed nobody 'gets' us.'
8450
The internals reveal Samsung used more of its own chips to power the new Galaxy S6 smartphone than it did for the predecessor S5, according to an early teardown report, in a blow to U.S. chip supplier Qualcomm.
8451
The bank worker, who says she has never taken a day off sick, stopped eating most other foods from the age of two.
It was just pointless.
8452
Popular Australian comedian Rebel Wilson also recently enlisted Stewart's style advice in a bid to bring a sense of 'classiness' to her image in Tinseltown.
8453
Reanne Evans insists her World Championship bid is 'do or die' for women in snooker.
Reanne Evans is aiming to become the first women to qualify for the snooker World Championships .
8454
Liam Plunkett wants to use his pace to lead England to victory in the Test series against West Indies .
I got some wickets and some good rhythm so it would be good to play that first Test.'
8455
A gang of fly-tippers have dumped a staggering 40 tonnes of industrial waste at the side of the road in a pretty Suffolk village.
8456
Manager Jose Mourinho shot back at claims that his side were boring this week, insisting that going 10 years without winning the league - as Arsenal have - was more boring, and now Drogba has added to the retort with a video captioned: 'Boring boring chelseaaaa!!!!!!'
8457
'The grunge scene is not what I'm interested in.'
He's larger than life, and our culture is obsessed with dead musicians.
But he wasn't.
8458
Preparing a roast can be daunting, but the cuts below are always a safe bet for any Sunday roast.
Best for Stewing .
The flavours are well worth the wait for a tasty bubbling stew.
8459
She later suffered a stroke in 2011, which her son said led to the onset of dementia, and moved into a care home.
In 2007, she recalled the evening she realised she had won the huge sum of money.
8460
'We've found a new home here so it will be a strain to leave here.
In 2009 the Light Dragoons were first given permission to march through Dereham with their bayonets fixed.
8461
VanZant was 18 when she won her first professional bout in Texas and stepped up to the all-women Invicta promotion in January 2013.
8462
Landon's twin sister Lorie visited Vietnam in 2005 but it was only years later that Landon discovered the scene of the crash in which they were presumed to have died, visiting ahead of tomorrow's anniversary with a film crew fromasialifemagazine.com.
8463
Simple: A picture of a ladder, which some desperate person had used to try to escape to the West .
It is believed the children were sent to a Stasi orphanage, their mother arrested.
8464
Garden:
Despite the programme being set in Surbiton, south-west London, the famous front and rear garden scenes were filmed at her home.
8465
In France, L'equipe lead with Paris Saint-Germain hitting back after defeat to Barcelona in midweek in the Champions league by beating Nice 3-1.
8466
After Watford weathered the storm, Vydra produced his moment of inspiration by volleying in from just outside the box in the 26th minute.
8467
The activists hoisted the bust to the top of a Revolutionary War memorial .
The guerrilla artists apparently knew going in that their bold tribute to Snowden was not long for this world.
8468
Mr Milstein said he became interested in black boxes after being asked to take photographs of one after a helicopter crash in Ottawa, Canada .
8469
The defender has been given a two-match ban - starting with Queen of the South at Palmerston on Thursday - after being sent off on Sunday.
8470
'If the ice layer is thick enough, then a planet can maintain an ocean of liquid water beneath the ice.'
8471
After a picture of her owl dolls went viral on social media last year, Yamkovskaia found herself inundated with hundreds of requests.
She has since received orders from all over the world.
8472
He said: 'Her phobia is so bad she cannot even look at a snake on TV, let alone see one in real life.
It could have been much worse.'
8473
Cricket commentator Richie Benaud has died aged 84 in a Sydney hospice after battling skin cancer .
Warne also thanks Benaud for the support he gave to him as a young cricketer.
8474
Trott has impressed since returning for Warwickshire and the England Lions, earning his return to the squad .
'I don't have a recipe for people.
8475
In an interview to be broadcast tonight, he makes clear he is not going to change the way he behaves to hide his 'poshness'.
8476
Labour leader Ed Miliband poses for a selfie with staff during a campaign visit to Airedale Hospital maternity ward in Keighley, Yorkshire, on Saturday .
8477
Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has given Azerbaijan the all-clear ahead of its debut next season despite serious concerns over the country's human rights record.
8478
Meyers Leonard had 17 points and 15 rebounds, while Robin Lopez had just eight points and seven boards.
8479
Pacquiao's song translates to English as 'I Will Fight For The Fillipino' and will be blasted through the MGM Grand Arena on May 2 before he bids to end Mayweather's 47-fight unbeaten run.
8480
The emaciated pit bull appeared to be in bad shape, with ribs showing and scars on her body, but her family is just happy their pet is alive.
8481
'I'm not sure what he did but that's a big apology!!
Jordan Miller tweeted .
But the man who requested it didn't appear to be frantically lovelorn, he said.
8482
But Smith said the general assigned to address her complaint also sang the sexist songs with the airmen regularly and she did not hear back from him.
8483
The jury will now decide whether the 21-year-old former student should be sentenced to death or receive life in prison.
COUNT 14: GUILTY .
8484
Depay signed his first professional contract in June 2012 and has already made over 100 appearances for the Dutch giants.
I like him a lot.'
8485
A doorman at a nearby hotel confirmed to MailOnline that a body was removed from the apartment building at 11am on Monday.
'He was such a lovely young man.
8486
A video of the crocodile swimming through the marina with the bike shop owner's dog has been viewed more than 500,000 times .
8487
The man was overheard to tell security that the music was a 'disgrace', and that show organisers had 'no respect for the local community'
8488
It sits 12 to 28 miles (19 to 45km) beneath the supervolcano and measures 11,035 cubic miles (46,000 cubic km).
8489
Everton, Newcastle and Swansea, have all shown an interest in Ayew, who is a free agent in the summer.
8490
Mr Carr takes in the scenery by a river in Ohio, showing the pedometer on his wrist that he used to keep track of his speed, distance, and route .
8491
He is also extremely underweight and is suffering from a long-standing case of mange, which has sparked secondary skin infections .
8492
Police are exploring the role played in the plot by Neil Prakash (left), 23, who is considered to be the top Australian recruiter for ISIS .
8493
The SNCF company made an official complaint to French prosecutors saying the action in Sunday's prestigious race had risked a deadly tragedy.
8494
Using his camera, Pietersen turned the tables to take pictures of photographers .
Pietersen was all smiles as he joked with team-mates ahead of the new county championship season .
8495
This case will be reported to the Information Commissioner and General Pharmaceutical Council and there will be an immediate investigation.’
8496
His wife who was left to look after the couple’s two children has now split from him because she ‘couldn’t wait for him’.
8497
He is so dangerous from defence.
Italian midfielder Andrea Pirlo is a 'footballing genius' according to his Juve team-mate Buffon .
Roberto Baggio .
8498
‘We organised everything for them and brought the camel to The Royal Beach.
He added: ‘The view from the bedroom and bathroom is what makes this suite truly a modern marvel. ‘If you want to go diving
8499
Aircraft returned.’
In February a coroner warned that airlines must take action to prevent passenger deaths from toxic fumes inside aircraft cabins.
8500
Americans have picked Diana and Elizabeth as their favourite names if the royal baby is in fact a girl.
'Only one in 10 Americans describe themselves as excited about the second royal baby.
8501
Australian artist George Gittoes says his 2015 Sydney Peace Prize is welcome recognition that 'creativity is the opposite of war'.
8502
Vicky Ntetema, executive director of Under The Same Sun, a Canadian non-profit organization defending albino rights, said campaigners wanted justice for those people kidnapped, mutilated and murdered.
8503
Jessica Castro, 30, and Ryan DeNiro, 29, who were comfortable with each other from the start, spent the end of their honeymoon arguing over his choice of words during what should have been a romantic dinner date in Key Largo.
8504
Luis Figo (left) and Michael van Pragg (right) are opposing Blatter and have chosen to run for presidency .
CAF said the three were attending merely as 'observers.'
8505
According to flight data specialist EUclaim, cancellations and delays are on the rise so far this year over last .
British Airways - 11% decrease .
8506
While listening to the radio, he heard a podcast questioning Australians on their plans for the public holiday.
The video has been viewed over 800,000 times on Mr Vale's Facebook page .
8507
Royal Role: Canadian Sarah Gadon, left. plays a young Princess Elizabeth, pictured right .
He said Margaret told him the Queen Mother loved the gift.
8508
But it became infected and after an emergency operation she was left with a gruesome hole in her leg (right)
'I won't even risk getting the tattoo removed.
8509
She received a kidney because her husband Bill gave his kidney to a patient in need .
In turn, Neyen received an organ from Matt Crane, 55, who lives outside of Philadelphia, reports ABC News.
8510
Eaten:
The 'combined effect' of a variety of drugs found in her system was likely to have been the cause of an accidental overdose, she added.
8511
‘As he walked out, my father figured out there was no puck and he turned around,’ Dan said.
Dan said his family had a chance to meet the Coyotes’ general manager after the reunion.
8512
In Yaphank, Camp Siegfried was shut down and taken over by the German-American Settlement league, which still runs it today, according to untappedcities.com.
8513
The cafe was influenced by the many cat cafes that have opened up in parts of far-east Asia, where they have become customary to many residents of cities such as Tokyo.
8514
Pippa, pictured laughing at Wimbledon with her sister, could be godmother to Kate's second child .
- has become a close confidante and travels around the world with the Duchess.
8515
Last year, however, Nasa scientists proposed that the Ocean of Storms was in fact the result of the formation of ancient rift valleys.
8516
This iconic photo by New York Times photographer Daniel Berehulak, was part of a winning series, and shows James Dorbor, 8, suspected of being infected with Ebola, being carried by medical staff to an Ebola treatment center in Monrovia, Liberia .
8517
'Ukip has never said anyone should leave the country, so the question is entirely baseless,' he told reporters.
8518
This Surrey screening room has velvet seats and inset lighting - perfect inspiration for the Clooney in-house cinema complex .
8519
It's taking place in Bnei Brak and its purpose is to redeem the baby .
The photojournalist also produced pictures of a dance taking place during the Jewish holiday of ‘Purim’.
8520
Police allege the man from Warwick used a range of social media sites to prey on children under the age of 16 and in some cases arranged meetings so he could physically abuse them .
8521
The event, which coincides with the racecourse's annual real ale festival, also saw runners owned by fellow royal Sheikh Mohammed of Dubai take to the track.
8522
’ So what is so wrong with that, especially when the owner of the club still has an interest-free loan of £129m marked in the latest Newcastle accounts?
8523
Wasps’ European exit highlighted the financial gulf between English and French clubs, with Ireland legend Brian O’Driscoll claiming that Roman Abramovich-style investment is needed to boost domestic sides.
8524
He added: ‘Attractive voices may create an idea about what a woman will look like.’
Findings suggest that women with an attractive face also tend to have an attractive voice’.
8525
If he does not make runs in the next two Tests and England are convinced he won’t be able to become the player he was then that is the time to have a look at someone else.
8526
Lucas Matthysse won a majority decision against Ruslan Provodnikov in a 12-round super lightweight bout on Saturday night.
He's a very tough fighter.
8527
Oscar hasn't completed a full 90 minutes for Chelsea since mid-January.
Oscar was disappointing during last weekend's win, and Mourinho hit out at his performance afterwards .
8528
Leaving the basketball court, Bolt posed for selfies, took his own video and even ran a 20-metre race on the track with several young girls.
8529
It will mark the television acting debut of Schofield, who is a performer, speaker and author known for his one-person shows that address transgender issues.
8530
Tsarnaev also was found guilty of the fatal shooting of Massachusetts of Institute of Technology police officer Sean Collier, 26.
8531
Authorities were called to an industrial site in Wetherill Park, west of Sydney, shortly after 11am on Thursday where they worked to release three men.
8532
Tottenham Hotspur are moving forward with the next step towards their new stadium development .
The rest will be demolished when Archway find a new premises.
8533
Nutrition: 197 cals, 14g sugar, 0.35g salt, 34g carbs, 3.4g fat .
The size of these is perfect for those who want a nostalgic Easter treat without the calorie content.
8534
Andy has launched his very own line of surf-inspired city wear with his younger brother .
Reality TV star Andy also co-owns a surf school in Devon, where he is an instructor .
8535
After he tried to tell Bonnie and Kelly that the seatbelt was 'defective' they informed him it was his body that was likely causing the problem.
8536
An Noor has been linked with extremism after a number of radical preachers were invited to speak there, but friends of Mr Arwani have insisted that he held moderate and pro-Western views.
8537
It just felt like a re-enactment'
However, in a second statement the FAA put out on Wednesday afternoon, there was no mention of a 'pressurization' issue.
8538
But the country has the second highest number of child marriages, according to a UN report.
Nearly 52 per cent of girls are married before reaching 18 years old, Indian records show.
8539
She suggested that possible reasons why golf was not as popular among women included the fact that it was quite an expensive activity and that other sports such as cycling ‘have been marketed more successfully at women’.
8540
Mr Glendell also noted that sometimes captive birds confined to cages use their ability to mimic to relieve their boredom and ensure responses from their owners.
8541
Soviet soldiers march through a muddy field near Odessa .
German sappers at Sevastopol, where a massive siege was launched against the Soviet Red Army .
8542
Police also confirmed that they had been called to the home before for domestic issues.
Autopsies have been scheduled for Wednesday to determine how the couple died.
8543
Another post said the post was a 'rubbish' effort to use 'a grassroots social media movement for a murdered woman for social relevance' and the brand is 'jumping on a bandwagon'.
8544
With the election going down to the wire, bookies have seen a flood of political bets.
Ladbrokes' forecast meanwhile shows the Conservatives ahead of Labour by just four seats.
8545
Finished articles: Prototype versions of a table and chair created by growing trees directly into plastic moulds .
Detail: A close up of one of the light shades.
8546
She said they'd fallen into the water and there were crocodiles eating my younger brothers and sister,' Mr Manyang said, according to the Herald Sun.
8547
He experimented on twins in a sickening attempt to develop genetic techniques for Hitler's dream of creating a 'pure' Aryan race.
8548
‘The Champ is here! @mannypacquiao and I
Pacquiao's Instagram and Twitter profiles show the star is focussed as he prepares for Floyd Mayweather .
8549
The figures, released by the British Pest Control Association, also revealed that the most pest-free place was Southend, in Essex, where 0.03 per cent of homeowners had a problem.
8550
Angus Durocher, a computer engineer who left Google to work for the Obama campaign, tweeted this photo of himself and Vice President Joe Biden when he was at work in the campaign's New Hampshire nerve center .
8551
Held in Traustein, Germany, the Easter horseback parade, known as the Georgiritt, dates back to the 18th century.
In some communities, the boys dress up as bears.
8552
In a scene worthy of a Stan Lee comic, a man allegedly pulled a gun on two teenagers in Salem telling them, 'get ready to die.'
8553
Colleen Harris will be sentenced for the killing of her third husband on June 5.
When he returned to California, he and his wife separated and he moved out.
8554
Manager: Pepe Guadiola 6 .
Missing key players, Pep Guardiola’s team were also missing balance, cohesion and an ability to defend properly.
8555
Fans can also choose to buy a shirt in the colours black or white commemorating the encounter .
The cheapest shirt has an 'M' for Mayweather' above a 'P' for Pacquiao .
8556
Garcia Cabeza de Vaca, an opposition senator and former mayor of . Reynosa.
More than 100,000 people have died in gang-related violence . in Mexico over the past eight years.
8557
Instead, the family travelled back to Ashington and went to a nearby pub for Sunday lunch.
'It was the first time we had ever visited that Wetherspoon pub and we won't be coming back.
8558
Dr Kujala said: 'On average, the more active members of twin pairs were jogging three hours more per week compared to their inactive co-twins.'
8559
Last December photos emerged of a huge garage sale Knowles was having in Houston, where selling both Beyoncé and old Destiny's Child memorabilia to raise money.
8560
‘When I step off the pitch I will be somebody else again.
But players’ health after rugby has to be the No 1 priority because it is such a short amount of rugby you play in your life.’
8561
Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Ms Alende, a Catholic, claimed she had also been asked to do the photoshoot but refused 'out of respect for God and for my family'.
8562
According to WMTW, authorities then executed a search warrant Johnson-Yarosevich's Acton apartment before meeting with the suspect alongside school administrators the school district headquarters on Monday.
A phone number listed for him rang unanswered Monday.
Police said that, because of the sensitive nature of the case, further details would not be released until after the investigation is complete.
8563
He told Daily Mail Online that patients such as Manderson experience their hallucinations as sound, rather than have the consciousness that it is only stuck in their head.
8564
However, after about a minute he decides he's had enough and starts to walk off.
The unlikely pair live at an animal rescue shelter in Camp Verde, Arizona.
8565
Bruce Davis' record shows there is 'some evidence' he is dangerous and shouldn't be freed, Superior Court Judge William C. Ryan wrote in a decision filed Wednesday.
8566
Fabio Cannavaro gives a thumbs up sign at the Bernabeu after signing for Real Madrid in 2006 .
Van Basten is the man, I have a bit of a man-crush on him.'
8567
As his weight soared he was left unable to stand or walk before finally becoming bed-ridden and being looked after full time by council carers.
8568
The Mayor of London claimed the UK has too many hairdressers and not enough young people learning to do the jobs the economy needs.
8569
Wealth:
The ruler of Dubai is set to build a personal six-storey super car park in London for his fleet of more than 100 luxury motors.
Plans:
8570
Current Toffees Chairman Bill Kenwright also paid tribute to Sir Philip, who he recalled to the board of directors at Goodison Park for a second time in 2008.
'As a man, he was an example for every Evertonian.
8571
Search parties have not been successful in recovering MH370 since it disappeared on March 8 last year .
8572
The lockdown came during Washington's annual Cherry Blossom Festival, which attracts thousands of tourists during Washington's busy season.
8573
However, he insists that tension has now dissipated.
‘In Melbourne it was a bit awkward but now I feel I’m past that.
He admits to not being close to Berdych.
8574
Blues striker Costa looks despondent as he sits on the turf following another injury to his hamstring .
'My medical department is fantastic, they do fantastically well for us.
8575
I don't feel that I can be redeemed.
As soon as the bodies were found in coastal areas near the family's condominium, Longo became the prime suspect.
8576
Pep Guardiola says his side suffered with the injuries they are currently contending with in the squad .
'We will need to produce a perfect performance in Germany next week to progress.'
8577
The dashcam footage showing Scott, 50, a Coast Guard veteran, being pulled over for a broken tail light just minutes before Slager shot him, was released to the media on Thursday.
8578
A 24-year-old rehab worker killed in a drive-by shooting in Las Vegas was an 'innocent bystander' who had been trying to aid two women who had approached her in the street.
8579
After the lamb was revealed to be fake, Mr Weinhofen took to social media to post an image of a real sheep .
Farmers take animal welfare seriously,' he Tweeted.
8580
Ms Freund said the disappearance did not appear suspicious and there was no evidence suggesting suicide.
I've got to go and I'll see you at school,' Mrs Davenport said.
8581
According to a Freedom of Information request by the Daily Mirror, at least 80,000, 105mm artillery shells - at a cost of £1,250 each - were fired at Taliban positions.
The conflict claimed 453 UK lives.
8582
Miss Wilson, who runs her own hair extension business, said: 'The owner didn’t even come over to check if Libby was okay, he just ran off.
'Libby was traumatised, but she is okay now.
8583
Skipper John O'Shea has challenged Sunderland to keep their fate in their own hands by securing a fifth successive derby victory over Newcastle.
8584
Mrs Weatherhead was driving to her job as a sales manager when McCallum ran a red light in his Ford Escape and struck her car.
The couple married in June but she was killed only months later .
8585
The American troops returned fire, killing the Afghan soldier, whom Sherzad identified as Abdul Azim, from Laghman province.
8586
A third man was wounded in the incident but survived.
Back behind bars: Following the sentencing phase, Hernandez was handcuffed and returned to jail .
8587
‘Chavez is back in action and hopefully he’ll do the business.
I’m prepared to travel to America because I’d like to fight in Las Vegas before I retire.’
8588
Luxury:
The apartment in her building is being offered for rent by Tunstall Property for £10,500 per week, which equates to £546,000 per year.
8589
By December 2013, she weighed 19st 3lb and went shopping for a new dress but broke down in tears when she couldn't fit into the store's size 24.
8590
Palermo striker Dybala (left) has also been linked with a transfer to Manchester United and Arsenal .
8591
While the drinks are said to have health benefits, some brands contain more than a day’s recommended intake of sugar in a single 300ml serving.
8592
Ding wasn't able to continue his break to pocket £30,000 at the world snooker championships at the Crucible .
8593
Since then, the British Transport Police has seen a 25 per cent increase in the number of sexual assaults being reported.
8594
Kantar Worldpanel said Aldi had recorded double-digit growth for the past four years.
Lidl also saw sales jump by almost 12 per cent over the period to secure a 3.7 per cent market share.
8595
'It's a huge positive for the European Tour to have such a tournament on one of the best golf courses in the world.
8596
Police are still investigating what happened next, but believe the five-year-old son got out of the car, but the two-year-old was left in there.
8597
Judge Carey added: 'I am not going to make any comment about Grindr - about people who are willing to take in others they hardly know and have relations with them when drugs have been smoked.
8598
But tree expert Dr Owen Johnson said the yew, in the village 10 miles west of Taunton, could just be going through a bad patch.
8599
The pair have also stayed neck and neck in terms of international achievements since Conlan emerged on the senior scene in 2011 and the younger member of the duo is also appreciative of his friend's presence on WSB duty.
8600
A hilarious manufacturing mistake means some police officers will have the word 'POLICE' written upside down on their uniforms (pictured)
8601
Perez lies on the ground as Glenn Johnson (left) clears the ball and Lovren (right) protests his innocence .
8602
It comes after local Leeton parents expressed anger over the loss of their children's 'favourite teacher' as the town continues to mourn the death of Stephanie Scott.
8603
At last, some good news for Sunderland and Newcastle United — apparently form goes out of the window in a derby.
Newcastle won’t be, but therein lies the problem.
8604
He was found hiding in a nearby bush after fleeing the vehicle.
The pair organised raids on four more homes in Great Barr, Birmingham and one in Atherstone, Warwickshire, between November 15 and 20.
8605
PR and branding: Critics accuse the charity of taking money which could be better spent on food .
But the charge has sparked criticism from other charities and community groups.
8606
The new mom, who was photographed at a party thrown by the Hollywood Reporter earlier this month, named her son Cooper Blue and her daughter Kingsley Rainbow .
8607
He was recaptured in January 2010.
The Ministry of Justice said last night that any prisoners using mobile phones would face disciplinary action.
8608
'I was more worried about winning the race.
Acting chief steward Greg Rudolph said he had never seen anything like it in his time in racing .
8609
Reasons they can’t… .
Messi drops deep to try to get the team passing — once he has stopped being Messi he will become the new Xavi —
8610
The song, Change The Tune, features comedians playing the four party leaders forming a boyband called Coalition.
Join the one true coalition.'
8611
Finally the pilot flew to Logan International in Boston.
Another female passenger said the flight was extremely bumpy and a lot of people on board got sick.
8612
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said: ‘Labour must explain why they won’t find the money the NHS says it needs.
8613
A self-warming bottle and a spout protector are other gadgets on offer .
The Spilly Spoon is designed to look like a caterpillar and administer medicine without spilling it .
8614
The incident occurred in Saracens' 22-6 win at Allianz Park, a match in which Vunipola scored a try.
Vunipola's case will be heard by a three-man panel on Tuesday.
8615
Spotted at the harbour:
One local resident said she had lived by the harbour for her whole life - but had 'never seen anything like it'
8616
However, cooked rice is very dangerous .
‘But there are a number of other food safety practices where there can be ‘room for improvement.'
8617
After posting this bikini photo on Instagram in March, she noted her son is 'growing so much'
I'm sure James will be amazing!
Can't wait to meet James!
8618
Yet another scientific study has found no link between autism and the vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) - even among high risk children.
8619
Big spender: The company has also accused him of running up a $1,382 bar tab at the Warwick nightclub in Hollywood, pictured .
8620
Osborne’s tour of the West Country has been designed to target seats where the Tories are fighting the Lib Dems.
Osborne is in his stride now, spitting venom.
8621
Detectives are expected to speak to Mr Norman after he was photographed with trays of baked goods on April 2.
Instead, he acted as a ‘beater’ to flush out the game.
8622
Humpbacks are found around the world, and officials say protection and restoration efforts have increased their numbers in many areas.
8623
McGregor has won all five of his fights in the UFC to earn himself a shot at Aldo while Mayweather takes on long-time rival Manny Pacquiao at the MGM Grand venue on May 2.
8624
Ronaldo's training shirt can be seen scrunched up in the hands of the star-struck supporter on the sideline .
8625
The building in downtown Oklahoma City falls in a dust cloud as it is demolished by explosives in May 1995 .
'TDC - threat, duress, or coercion - is a standard.
8626
Arsenal should target Chelsea goalkeeper Cech if he leaves Stamford Bridge, insists Carlo Cudicini (pictured)
8627
Africa will host it's first-ever NBA match this summer with basketball stars Chris Paul and Luol Deng taking part in an exhibition match.
8628
Multiple drug charges:
The man told police that the heated argument was over a friend that he 'didn't approve of Hilbert spending time with.'
8629
The sum is almost five times the Prime Minister’s £142,500 pay packet – and comes as thousands of patients struggle to get on the books of NHS practices.
8630
Alec Stewart (Age 52) CURRENT JOB: Director of cricket at Surrey.
He may decide he’s enjoying his media career too much to risk entering firing line.
8631
And here, Emma Louise Connolly shows off her incredible figure as she models Ann Summers' first bridal wear lingerie.
8632
'It’s going to be a proper scrap at the weekend.
Carl Jenkinson was speaking exclusively to MailOnline at the launch of Betway’s #HammersAtTheArrers competition.
8633
The two marques finished bottom of a 38-strong table of vehicle manufacturers judged on reliability.
Axle and suspension faults were also common, affecting 22% of cars.
8634
'We told him that his scars are beautiful and make him look like a superhero.
After surgery, Carter's chest scar was covered with superhero stickers .
8635
Some players blame QPR's slump on Redknapp’s recruitment during the summer transfer window .
Everyone now is a leader and makes a difference,’ he said.
8636
Subs not used: O'Hara, Fletcher .
It would be harsh to blame Evans for the goal but Panayiotou was his man and he will feel he should have done better.
8637
It was only when Mason pleaded guilty in September that the case against them was dropped at the Old Bailey.
8638
He is said to have met Eboli at a Christmas party in 1997 at the Montauk Yacht Club with his son Mark, who later committed suicide over his father's fraudulent activities, Page Six reported.
8639
Looking up at Eric in excitement, the dog waits for the trainer to say ‘one’ and complete a press-up before following suit and completing one of its own.
8640
We get on better with each other over a meal, according to researchers who said it makes everyone from work colleagues to children seem more pleasant.
8641
They have written to the SFA seeking 'to understand' how the match officials failed to spot the hand Josh Meekings used to block a Leigh Griffiths shot in their semi-final defeat to Inverness.
8642
For iOS only, Pandora is top, Apple's Garageband is second and Spotify is third.
Paris-based Deezer is the second largest service with 6 million customers.
8643
The Serbian defender had ears burning in the Premier League when he said last week that he won't decide his Dortmund future until after his summer holidays.
8644
Wisconsin players run onto the court in celebration as Kentucky's unbeaten season was brought to an end .
Wisconsin Badgers fans cheer on their team at the Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis .
8645
But they say because they are unable to do this, it is placing a strain on the family.
Mrs Hand added: 'We live in a normal semi-detached house.
8646
Taking a shot at Florida Governor Rick Scott, who allegedly banned the phrase climate change from his employees' vernacular, Obama said that 'simply refusing to say the words "climate changed" doesn’t mean that climate change isn’t happening.'
8647
Not everyone is praising the appointment though, and Oscar De La Hoya, one of Mayweather's past opponents in a match overseen by Bayless, has suggested that the choice of official will serve as a clear advantage for the American over Pacquiao.
8648
Stoke retain an interest in Sunderland's Lee Cattermole whose contract talks have been put on hold until their Premier League fate is resolved.
8649
Lane Bryant, however, insists its I'm No Angel campaign is diverse and represents 'the woman who unapologetically celebrates herself'.
8650
He said that a pair of kestrels had been guarding the nesting box in the tree, but when they left in the evening a barn owl swooped in and laid a claim to the nest.
8651
Then, as they kept digging into his background, Helsinki visited a Tampa bank branch and discovered an old account.
His search is focused on a small apartment.
8652
Local residents in Alderholt, Dorset, pictured, awoke on Sunday to find an Easter egg on every doorstep .
Tracey Feltham added: 'It's just such a beautiful thing.
8653
Garcia is charged with child abuse for the incident .
According to witnesses, Garcia continued to reverse the car for 200ft, before driving onwards some 200ft with her son on the hood before stopping.
8654
The Class of '92 stars will no doubt be delighted that their impact has produced such immediate success .
8655
THE CHAMPIONSHIP .
Martin Allen's Barnet side will be promoted as champions if they win at Kidderminster and Bristol Rovers lose at Dover.
8656
They actually did go out for the first dance.’
And as for the mother-of-the-groom, 55-year-old Mrs Murray wore a white dress coat, which was belted at the waist.
8657
The remaining Victory Shield competitors are planning to invite another country from Europe to replace England.
The FA say Dyke had business on the south coast.
8658
The horrified owner, Carla Gloger, appeared moments later and shouted at the officer: 'They're not even vicious.'
I can hear him suffering, shoot him.
8659
I was able to get over the line pretty comfortably.'
And he hopes he can again use the golf course as his 'sanctuary' from the pressure and hype surrounding Augusta.
8660
A 1-year-old girl who was shot in the head in a drive-by shooting outside Seattle has died.
Two male suspects are now being sought by police.
8661
Lancashire’s wartime weekend .
Seven cars hang from giant clothes pegs on a wire in Brighton as part of the annual Art Festival Fringe street theatre .
8662
Roy Keane described Paris Saint-Germain defender David Luiz as 'lost' following his woeful first-half performance against Barcelona on Tuesday night.
'We didn't take the opportunities to score in the first match.
8663
Mr Abignale exaplained that while he used ink and paper to fraudulently access money, the scope for internet fraud is greater and easier for hackers .
8664
'You're not being bullied, because you're asking me a question, I'm going to ask you questions back,' Christie says, as he continues to dodge the issue.
8665
The Cheyenne Mountain Complex in Colorado was built for NORAD to direct the American response to a nuclear war with the USSR during the Cold War .
8666
An archive of images showing the evolution of the Easter Egg over the past 40 years has been released in time for this year's celebrations.
8667
Moser said that she believes her daughter hears her when she talks to her, and she believes that Giles will make a full recovery so she will be able to raise her son .
8668
This picture was the last taken of nine-year-old Chloe at 2.31pm - she is seated in front of her family home.
He was rejected because of his long criminal record in France and Poland.
8669
The video maker noted that once the pilot realized his mistake he began re-engaging the engine .
The FAA is said to be investigating the incident.
8670
Legal documents obtained by TMZ state that the marriage has 'broken down irretrievably.'
According to TMZ, Bobby attended a wine festival in Florida with his assistants instead.
8671
Miss Reign joined a site for bigger women who like to flaunt their shape, she soon had plenty of male attention.
'I've put on six stone since I started.
8672
Per Mertesacker: Given a good, physical battle by Vokes and just about came out on top.
Laurent Koscielny suffered a few difficult moments as Arsenal sought to continue their excellent form .
8673
Dashcam footage shows police attempting to stop Thaddeus McCarroll from charging .
The encounter was recorded on officer's body camera as police asked McCarroll to drop his knife numerous times.
8674
Shopping with friends is bad for your bank balance – because it encourages people to spend far more than they would if making purchases by themselves.
8675
There is a well-trodden path between Arsenal and City over the past five years.
Pogba, a 22-year-old France international, was on Manchester United’s books before moving to Italy.
8676
Swansea City have expressed an interest in Schalke full back Christian Fuchs.
He was outstanding in Schalke's 4-3 Champions League win over Real Madrid last month.
8677
Gemma the pit bull was filmed at home in California enthusiastically greeting a baby boy named Elliot with kisses.
8678
The outfit was made by the Viennese tailor, Tiller, who was known to have made uniforms for the Nazis during the war.
'We don't know the origin of the uniform.
8679
'I cook for them a ton!' he told The New Potato.
Neil commented on this Instagram picture that his kids were 'devouring oysters at Eataly' in New York City; the seafood pick is one of daughter Harper's favorite foods .
8680
MDMA is known as ecstasy and I accept there were sufficient quantities in the blood to cause death.'
The death of Jacques and Torin identify a great problem - the dark web.
8681
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said Oleg Kalashnikov (pictured), a former member of the Ukrainian parliament, was found dead Wednesday evening .
8682
Referring to a woman at the check in desk, he said: 'Thank God she let me through.
On BBC2 current affairs show Newsnight in November, O’Reilly declared 'Dapper Laughs is gone'.
8683
And if Graves disagreed with the original decision to axe Pietersen, then he had a duty as deputy chairman of the ECB to say so then, not wait until he had taken over from Giles Clarke.
8684
Anthony Dirrell’s people have already been in touch with me about a Froch fight in the event that he wins, but I wonder if it is big enough.
8685
Raheem Sterling told the BBC that he had rejected a £100,000-a-week contract at Liverpool prompting talk that he could leave the club .
8686
That someone left the door open?
Former head of Scotland Yard's Flying Squad, John O'Connor, pictured, said the Holborn fire and the raid could be linked .
8687
No wonder a recent ranking of the top 10 airports for baggage handling saw the Japanese airport taking top honours thanks to its track record.
8688
In it he is said to have told the American people to get their loved ones out of the military now because: 'The Islamic State is coming for them.
8689
Like Cole, the manager's contract expires in the summer and it is looking increasingly likely he'll leave West Ham.
I said: "Okay I will come back and try my best for you".
8690
The Pasco County Sheriff's office have claimed he illicitly made his way into the encrypted system, had access to personal files and could have altered his classmates' grades, but the youngster maintains it was an innocent prank.
8691
Criticism followed initial speculation about Khan’s opponent but he has hit back now by declaring Algieri a much more significant challenge than Gavin.
8692
Today's piece, written by academics from Imperial College London and New York University, points out that more GPs are required if access is to be improved.
8693
'Prevent is shutting down debate and we must oppose it and we must say schools are places where children and teachers should be allowed to discuss these issues.'
8694
During the extensive search, police found approximately 20 kilograms of kava divided into 862 small bags and a small quantity of cannabis.
The man and woman were arrested and taken to Katherine Watch House.
8695
Noted: Harley Jo Skorpenske, who suffers from lupus, discovered this note on her car after stopping at a CVS in Cleveland, Ohio .
Their pain and discomfort is real.'
8696
But that distinctive splash of colour is the only clue to the identity of the man who turned this building into a family home.
Bedrooms: Four .
8697
‘Found this gold ring snorkelling at Finns Beach Club in Bali today (April 7).’
Roxy Walsh shared a photo of a gold ring she found on Facebook in the hope of finding its owner .
8698
Deters' statement says Bradley took her baby daughter to a hospital March 29 where the girl was pronounced dead.
He said an older child lives with paternal relatives.
8699
'The public figure posted the photo on social media and it reflects poorly on the Agency.'
'Yet those counseling incidents can block a trooper’s chances for promotion or advancement.
8700
Marouane Fellaini (pictured) has been in brilliant form for Manchester United in recent weeks .
‘But we know that when he comes into the box, he is very dangerous.
8701
Ibe has been absent for the last six weeks after he damaged his knee ligaments during a Europa League tie against Besiktas in Istanbul.
8702
Violence continued from around 6.45pm into the evening when Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts issued an order for protesters to disperse .
8703
Contrasting that with Labour's record, he will claim Ed Miliband's economic policies could see 'a million more people joining the dole queues'.
8704
McCord said 'the physical evidence inside the house' indicates the father killed his wife, sons and himself .
Perez told the Associated Press: 'I'm shocked.
8705
Silva says Luis Suarez (left), Neymar (centre) and Lionel Messi are the best three players in the world .
With our individual quality we will try to suprise them.'
8706
The spacecraft is expected to smash into the planet's surface at 2.4 miles per second (3.9km/s).
Messenger has also revealed the temperature of Mercury's surface.
8707
On Tuesday, one senior club figure told Sportsmail on condition of anonymity, that the Hibs, Hearts and Motherwell proposal was ‘outrageous’.
8708
Don't take any digital photos .
The entrepreneur said it's hard for people to know where the line stops when it comes to posting personal details online.
8709
Townsend and Kyle Walker were the worst two players on the pitch.
The Tottenham’s winger’s father Troy joined in, too, tweeting: “Oh ye of little faith #Merson get in.’
8710
After selling for $5million at a Sothenby's auction in 2002, the original Rosie the Riveter is now part of the permanent collection at the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Arkansas.
8711
Yes, Louis Smith, MBE, is now also very good at exciting his fans with selfies.
For example, there are pics taken in his bathroom where he's clearly wearing jeans, despite the lack of a shirt.
8712
I think the ethos and everything we are building at the club is going in the right direction.'
'The disappointment is two-fold.
8713
And one version of the extravagant watch is also adorned with a one carat diamond plus hundreds of other smaller diamonds in the strap.
8714
I will have to step down.'
The Ukip leader said many Tory backbenchers will rebell if there is another power-sharing deal with Nick Clegg.
He told Mr Farage told Sunday Times that he had conversations with 'more than a handful' of Tories about joining Ukip if the Prime Minister caves into Lib Dem demands on the terms of an EU referendum.
8715
She also said it was 'unthinkable' that the baby had not been given a proper burial.
A report in the Eastern Daily Press from 1988 tells how the body was found floating on the pond .
8716
Should Ings move to another Premier League club Burnley would be due a sizeable compensation fee because of his age, but that fee would be nominal if the striker moved abroad.
8717
Ambulances just arrived at LSE where the building fell down.
'They seem to have had a really lucky escape to me, because everything else had just collapsed around them.'
8718
After standing and shaking its head, the big bird then moves forwards and rolls the ball to the left with its foot.
8719
Mr Knight was killed instantly.
Hamilton had been on license for the charges at the time he killed Mr Knight.
He panicked, drove off and did all the wrong things.'
8720
They said he would likely face a felony charge of leaving the scene of an accident since the woman broke her arm in the crash.
8721
Noise levels are being tested on the rollercoaster at Flambards in Cornwall over the Easter period .
This was also agreed by Helston Town Council last year.
8722
They will escape the drop zone for the first time since November if they beat Swansea at home on Saturday by three goals and Burnley fail to win at Everton.
8723
Accompanying the letter from Benaud, dated September 27, 1996, was a full sheet of notes about spin bowling for left-hand bowlers .
8724
Vonda Thedford, 55, told Fox News that she was driving along a Pittsburg County rural road earlier this month when she spotted the mysterious carcass lying on the ground .
8725
Subs not used: Kutschke, Strohdiek, Bruckner, Luck .
Henrikh Mkhitaryan heads the home side in front just three minutes after half-time at Signal Iduna Park .
8726
Instead of tossing the ball overhand, Howard used a motion that was one part underhand and one part sidearm to make his full-court shot find paydirt.
8727
On Saturday a 29-year-old man was admitted to Bundaberg Hospital (pictured) suffering from fractures, head injuries and burns .
8728
Would love to see them in a final against Bayern Munich.
Is it written in the stars that Barcelona will be standing in his way?
And Neymar.
8729
But she added: 'I do personally support an Australian points system.'
Today the headteacher said that the unnamed boy's comments were 'not representative of the school'.
8730
The bull shark took a bite out of his back, torso and head, according to witnesses in Palm Beach, Florida.
'He was bleeding quite a bit,' witness Peter Pinello told WPBF.
8731
With a look of pure concentration she continues to spin, lifting her arms to the traditional folk music.
Mongolian dances are closely connected with song or story.
8732
Judy, 55, doesn't play tennis to stay in shape, 'Because my life is saturated with it'
Instead, she tries anything from dancing, to Pilates, to walking in the hills or gardening .
8733
She will make her first appearance on April 30, just before the NFL draft.
Smith (above) will undergo five more rounds of chemotherapy after the NFL draft .
8734
Meanwhile the NCAA has voiced their concern with Indiana's new law.
The protest came days after Indian Governor Mike Pence signed revisions into the controversial law.
8735
For me, this project is an awakened dream that has turned into reality.'
The motel is eventually expected to be torn down and replaced with a new development.
8736
It should be reiterated that putting your hand on someone’s backside is sexual assault punishable by a five-year prison term and a €75,000 fine.”
8737
Born into a family of teachers, Jia Jiang was so determined to become an entrepreneur that, as a child in China, he dug a hole in the garden, intending to reach America by the shortest route.
8738
Outspoken British comedian Russell Brand has appealed to this fans to sign up to the mercy campaign to save condemned Bali Nine duo from facing death row.
8739
The woman was prescribed eye drops, but suffered an allergic reaction to them.
She later underwent surgery to repair the hole in her macula, after two months of poor vision.
8740
In June 2013 he escaped from Heart of America Correctional Center, climbing over a fence at the prison's recreation area.
8741
Friends reported Agnese missing the week of her disappearance along with her mum and sister after they flew to Spain when she failed to respond to calls and messages .
8742
Jail:
Killer:
Coates later boasted about what he had gone, sending a text message to friends in which he said 'I put the gun to his head.'
8743
Mindless:
A thug is caught on camera kicking the wing mirror off  a vehicle at La Marina Auto Sales in Dearborn Heights, Michigan .
8744
'He is a young player with a huge amount of potential and also someone who showed mentally that he is able to cope with anything thrown at him.'
8745
She still works at parties and even nursing homes, but now her biggest gig is performing with Legends in Concert, a concert series that includes artists impersonating the likes of Whitney Houston, Britney Spears, and Tim McGraw.
8746
Miss Langley has been updating her Instagram feed daily, and sharing her progress in a series of Snapchat videos.
Her trip to Thailand is a $5,190 'Bangkok Nose Job' package with CosMediTour.
8747
The hygienists apparently did not mind Tayler nursing her son - and one even offered to halt the treatment and return when she was finished.
8748
He claimed the £85 charge against him was disproportionate and vowed to fight the companies who 'extort money by threatening and bullying people into paying up'.
8749
'If this if the case we think Lewis Hamilton should apologise for his actions and think carefully about how he behaves in the future.
Smiles:
8750
Police said Carter sent him a text saying 'get back in' when he had second thoughts.
Three days after she allegedly encouraged him to take his life, she questioned why he had died .
8751
Instead Canadian inventor Wayne Fromm developed a hand-held extendable selfie stick in the early 2000s, which he called the Quik Pod.
8752
The brothers are both addicted to synthetic marijuana (file picture).
They later created a Facebook page to warn others about the perils of synthetic marijuana.
8753
Baby business:
Many of the surrogates who spoke with Gianna said that they decided to carry a baby because they desperately needed the money .
8754
Prosecutor Neil Basarya said: 'She was in a state of panic and attempted to open the till.
He pulled out £650 in cash from the till but was arrested by police shortly afterwards .
8755
Gunners forward Theo Walcott leaps into action during a training drill having played 55 minutes for England in Turin on Tuesday evening .
8756
Ben Stokes was the pick of the bowlers for me on day one because of the fuller length that he bowled.
Yes, at times England bowled a bit short.
8757
Like Sani, many children saw terrible things during the attacks.
Another drawing by Fatima, 15, shows how she's seen people shot and killed .
8758
At best, homestays are offered by hosts who want to help you understand their country or district.
More information: www.homestay.com .
Dive in:
8759
Kunanathan, of Catford, London, admitted seven offences under food safety and hygiene regulations at Medway Magistrates’ Court.
Disgusting:
8760
Reed said she knew 'for a fact that [Turner is] completely baffled by the amount of interest' in the popularity of images that show him scything in a field.
8761
The next moderator of the Free Church has claimed the Church of Scotland is ‘literally dying’ because of falling congregation numbers.
8762
Statement:
,’ he added.
Its deputy chairman claims children are being exposed to ‘propaganda’ from Brussels in a bid to ‘catch them young’.
8763
Olsi Beheluli, who claims he appeared on Channel 4 dating show My Little Princess, was a member of a gang responsible for selling 'significant quantities' of class A drugs.
8764
A sudden influx of largely Spanish-based signings would bring (mostly temporary) excitement and they'd probably do well in the cups - enough to banish memories of the Big Sam years at least.
8765
Defending Totton, who has 24 convictions for 80 offences, James Harrison said: 'It was a prank, albeit one not understood by the defendant to have the potential for intimidation.
8766
Will Smith's elegant actress wife Jada Pinkett-Smith, 43, looks remarkably similar to 36-year-old Star Trek star Zoe Saldana .
Glamorous redheads:
8767
A Chinese man recovering in hospital after a car crash had a shock - when all 17 of his girlfriends turned up to see him.
8768
On his arrest, Von Greim admitted to his captors: 'I am the head of the Luftwaffe, but I have no Luftwaffe'.
'Von Greim was flown in to Berlin amid all the fighting.
8769
‘I am not ruling out doing more coaching work in the future.
Warriors head coach Gregor Townsend paid tribute to the role Kellock played in the continued improvement of the club both on and off the field.
8770
Mr Blowes was out in the surf with about a dozen others when she 'massive' shark struck.
'I was just watching the shark go out to the ocean with his board still attached.
8771
Diet Pepsi will no longer contain the sweetener aspartame due to customer fears over its safety.
Very little is needed for a sweet taste, making aspartame virtually non-caloric.
8772
Stars generate sounds on their surface in an unexpected way, according to new experimental evidence.
It would be less common in more mature stars, like our sun.
8773
Several trusts actively encourage patients to ‘self-fund’.
Yeovil District Hospital in Somerset says its private cataract service will ‘help you get back to the things you love’.
8774
The men were part of a group of five divers from the East Coast and San Francisco.
Ten friends from the East Coast and San Francisco rented a house on Caspar Cove to dive for abalone, locals said.
8775
The bone is shown here, believed to be the oldest musical instrument discovered in Europe, on show in Ljubljana.
The bone was discovered on 18 July 1995 in Slovenia .
8776
It is a ground for the fans, paid for by the fans.
'We have to get that one right,' says Andy, but the provider will be a local firm in line with the club's policy.
8777
This is the terrifying moment an SUV hurtled head-on into a school bus full of students on Monday morning.
Police commended the bus driver for doing what she could.
8778
Police are investigating the alleged incident at Suede nightclub (pictured) in Manchester which is popular with Premier League stars.
8779
Out front: Kim Kardashian led the charge on Monday in support of her former step-dad and said while the family finds the situation hard, they are supportive of Bruce and happy for him as he transitions to a new way of life .
8780
The 30 Rock star has yet to comment on Dr. Brandt's suicide, though her husband did say the entire incident was 'very sad' a few days after the dermatologist's death.
8781
A pair of tickets for the Las Vegas showdown was posted on eBay at a cost of $12,600 (£8,300) per seat .
 Priced at $150 (£100), these tickets also went on sale on Thursday.
8782
The turning point came for the pair after staying with Tony's sister Anna who was having success with the Slimming World diet, they both decided to sign up in April 2012.
8783
The filmmaker adds the final cup and after rotating through the various accessories picks a pair of glasses .
8784
But in a counter-peristalsis contraction, a second oocyte is released by the ovary before the first egg has completed its journey.
8785
Ms Barnes said the family has concerns about the care Ms Hindle received, claiming she was left alone with a student midwife following the birth, once the placenta had been delivered.
8786
According to the investigation, a neighbor reported hearing an argument coming from Colina's apartment Friday night, while Colina and Camilien were last seen returning to the building just after 11 pm Friday.
8787
In 2020 AIM will head to the paired Didymos asteroids, which will come a comparatively close 11 million km to Earth in 2022 .
8788
Uh oh.
Drugs, unemployment, failure to finish school -- sex is part of the disaster"
It takes only 1 time having sex to get pregnant."
WTF?
8789
I'm happy to have scored and to have been given another chance by the manager.
'I wanted to score another but unfortunately it didn't happen.'
8790
River Plate are keen to sign Manchester United striker Radamel Falcao but admit a deal is complicated.
The doors are open.'
8791
The charges she settled Thursday had to do with sex acts she and the 16-year-old committed at a residence in that town .
8792
Bangla Road in Phuket comes to life when the sun goes down.
The DJ also stayed at the Sri Panwa and performed at a nightclub called seduction .
8793
Texas Health Resources filed a response on Friday to the March 2 lawsuit by nurse Nina Pham, The Dallas Morning News reported Saturday.
8794
, I was sticking in there. ‘My horse is bred to stay and he won over two-and-a-half miles at Fairyhouse. 
Aintree is a great place and a meeting that I have always enjoyed.’
8795
A Labour parliamentary candidate has apologised 'wholeheartedly' for telling people to throw 'Tippex' over cars displaying England flags.
8796
He notes that the young fox is unable to go forwards or backwards in its current position and that it has been stuck around 40 minutes so in desperate need of being set free.
8797
The open letter he wrote to Chelsea fans when he left the club — against advice that it was not the best way to ingratiate himself with his new supporters — also spoke volumes.
8798
Mrs Clothier's son Peter  insists she knew what was happening and he saved many of her things .
'Mrs Clothier attended our premises and took back the items she wanted.
8799
Gemma explains that she started the collection because she wanted to show curvy women out there how to embrace their curves.
Swing Top £35 .
8800
And Sandra Vaughan, a beauty consultant for artificial tan brand Fake Bake, said the pale look is now more fashionable.
‘If skin is not on show, why dress it up?’
8801
Brits each have on average three unwanted and unreturned items.
The facilities allow customers to collect, try and return, online unsuitable items.
8802
We are not prepared for that,' he warned.
The current NSA chief Michael Rogers testified late last year that China is capable of cyber-attacks that could cause 'catastrophic failures' of the water system or the electricity grid.
8803
But her return to action sets up the prospect of a showdown against Katarina Johnson-Thompson, the brilliant young British heptathlete who is the heir to Ennis-Hill's throne.
8804
Rogan was pronounced dead at St. Joseph’s Hospital in the town of Marshfield.
Rogan, 42, was a devout churchgoer and former marine, and ran an organic seed business .
8805
Storey claimed his worries related to Ms Eisenhour's weight-loss, recent job performance and absences.
Eisenhour was a court employee for over 25 years.
8806
He rode out on to the course.
There was something wonderfully moving about the tribute.
He did not try to put a brave face on what was happening.
8807
'Vitamin C boosts absorption of iron from non-meat sources, so eat cashews with a kiwi fruit, in a salad with peppers and tomatoes or with a small glass of orange juice.'
8808
Speaking to the Eugene Register-Guard after the contest, a newly-victorious Simon said: 'I thought he had me.
'I thought he was just so far ahead.
8809
The South Korean shot a three-under-par round of 69 on day three of the competition .
'You know, just because, I've watched this tournament since I was young.
8810
Jordon Ibe's proved he's got some impressive moves on the football pitch but the young winger has shown us he's an equally adept dancer - by pulling off the trademark Michael Jackson 'moonwalk.'
8811
Tebow's pursuit of being an NFL quarterback is back on, after being on hold since being cut from the Patriots.
8812
Following Richie Benaud's small family funeral, fellow commentators and cricketing greats gathered at the Australian Golf Club for a memorial .
8813
Officials said Greene suffered minor injuries during the foot chase and was taken to a hospital.
The AP sought comment on the charges from Greene, but he was still in police custody.
8814
The initial police report said the animal was a small seal.
Though small pups are cute they can be very dangerous, officials warned .
8815
The 1-0 victory over Southampton, courtesy of captain Phil Jagielka's fifth goal of the season, was a case in point.
'There has been a big improvement.
8816
And Julia put it simply: 'She's not a murderer,' she said.
MTA is considering all possible safety enhancements that would prevent deadly accidents in the future, the company's chairman said.
8817
But the line is thin, you want to make the players effective and efficient but never to kill off their creativity and capacity for invention.'
8818
Luke Shambrook was last seen on the national park at 9.30am on Good Friday.
It is understood he wandered off and has not been seen since .
8819
Some Japanese fans have demanded not only the expulsion of Hyeok, but of all South Koreans, from the game.
8820
Louis van Gaal is close to delivering his first-season aim of returning Man United into Champions League .
Now we wait and see if Van Gaal can deliver.
8821
Rossen (pictured here) later uploaded the 12-second clip of the pro-active employee to social media along with the caption: 'Hardest working man at LaGuardia... from my window'
8822
At the end of his DVD recording, Noble flashes text that reads 'The End' and heralds his own suicide .
No one else was shot but two people suffered minor injuries.
8823
It comes as David Cameron faced a growing revolt last night over his 'flat-footed' General Election campaign.
8824
You're food,' McGregor wrote next to the Instagram post of his new artwork.
Conor McGregor grabbed Aldo's (left) belt when they took their promotional tour to Dublin .
8825
'The new arena will provide a fantastic setting for the climax of the Championship at the 72nd hole and will be the ideal place for spectators to greet the new champion golfer of the year.'
8826
Badge of honour: He is called a 'tri-service safety officer'
'Finding a good number of people that are able to qualify in all three is asking an awful lot.
8827
Experts say the slicky-edited video is the first 'real evidence' which shows Jones is involved with the brigade at a 'high level'.
8828
He said Talley's mental state is 'is very sharp.'
Just days after becoming the world's oldest documented person, 116-year-old Gertrude Weaver died Monday.
8829
The town of Argostoli's port is ideal for picking up supplies, including catch-of-the-night fish  from the boats .
It's lovely to swim there.
8830
And he is adamant he doesn’t expect any meaningful talks with the Ibrox board until after the play-offs.
‘At the moment there’s a feelgood factor about the club.
8831
She added the addition of the word 'BeneFit' to 'Brow Bar' also did not help differentiate the cosmetic giant's services from Ms Noonan's business.
8832
Paul Scholes says United's good run of form has come at a time when they have nothing to play for .
United are putting the results together now with the pressure off, to a large extent.
8833
The Humane Society is now looking for a foster volunteer who can take the puppies home once they've been given the all-clear.
Perfect timing:
8834
Shannen said passengers were stuck on the plane for up to 90 minutes, as they waited for buses to arrive, and they arrived in Edinburgh about three hours behind schedule.
8835
Sterling risked angering Liverpool fans after he said in an interview he was not ready to sign a contract .
But a move to Arsenal wouldn’t go down well.
8836
'(On Saturday) we were 14th fastest, so (on Sunday) if nothing happens we will be 14th fastest in the race probably.
'This is not enough to be in the points.
8837
Leeds Crown Court court heard that only Crossland and Mrs Quigley had keys to this.
The money was stolen by Crossland, pictured,  from the Child's Play nursery in west Yorkshire .
8838
Baltimore police have come under intense scrutiny after Gray was taken into custody and suffered an unexplained spinal injury that led to his death.
8839
10.
A variation of The Zombie, this Cuban Zombie (left)  is made with three types of aged rum and passion fruit syrup.
Long Island Iced Tea .
8840
Ferreira has been kept busy representing Chelsea as their European youth league ambassador but is also taking his coaching badges.
8841
But critics say by using her personal email account, she has avoided scrutiny.
However, it has already been claimed that the documents have 'huge gaps'.
8842
Luke Shambrook was last seen on the national park at 9.30am on Good Friday.
Sergeant Greg Paul says the search is focused on an area of several kilometres of bushland.
8843
As if the news that Tiger Woods will be back at the Masters next week was not encouraging enough for American golf, the sight of a resurgent Phil Mickelson at the Shell Houston Open provided added lustre.
8844
An estimated 150,000 people died when the US bombed Hiroshima, obliterating as much as 70 per cent of the city (pictured in 1945) Pilot:
War:
8845
Minutes later he was shot dead .
In 2011, bench warrants ordered deputies to bring him in, and Scott spent a night in jail when he was $7,500 behind.
8846
Scott Stephenson shouted and swore outside court after he was bailed ahead of his sentencing for a theft in which he stole a phone from a man dying of hypothermia .
8847
Gothamist
Horrified:
'I don't know if I'll use it again,' she told DNAInfo.
The company has since pledged to refund the entire cost of her ride.
8848
Shelby Wilkie had filed two domestic violence charges against her husband before her death, but both were voluntarily dismissed, according to WSOC.
8849
'We believe that this has been an isolated incident and not a random shooting, enquiries are ongoing to establish this.
He was a big part of the community.
8850
The launch sequence as it happened.
SpaceX is one of two companies hired by Nasa to fly cargo to the station following the retirement of the space shuttles.
8851
The second leg will be held at the Nou Camp on April 21.
PSG manager Laurent Blanc has described Messi as 'unstoppable' as his side prepare to face Barcelona .
8852
The coach's contract is also valid for the second division should Hamburg be relegated.
Labbadia returns to Hamburg for a second spell after coaching the club for one season in 2009-10 .
8853
Elizabeth Jane Howard, pictured with Kingsley Amis, collected ancient jewellery .
This Roman bracelet, which is made from twisted strands of gold, is expected to fetch £5,000 .
8854
If it gets too hot, Optimal will cool the device using the micro-fans.
'Like all electronics, constant exposure to the elements will have a negative impact on your smartphone.
8855
Emmanuel Ledesma converted the resulting penalty past substitute stopper Matt Macey.
Matt Macey had to come on for Arsenal after starting goalkeeper Deyan Iliev was sent off inside 15 minutes .
8856
But Ms Cahill called off their engagement last December.
She also co-starred alongside supermodel Caprice in a British version of popular US film series American Pie.
8857
Monk's men have enjoyed an excellent campaign by being in the top 10 all season and are currently in eighth place with the club's best Barclays Premier League points total in sight.
8858
They lost everything,' Dixon told Channel 2.
Following the fire, the mother of six said: 'My children are homeless.
They lost everything'
8859
Officers cleared the motorway within half an hour and Don was reunited with his relieved owner at nearby Kirkton Farm .
‘He didn’t even bark,’ Mr Hamilton said.
8860
Edward Fride, pictured next to a cut-out of the Pope, warned that crime had gone up in the area while budget cuts meant that there had been a 'reduction in the availability of an armed police response’
8861
That means that US viewers will have to fork out over three times the amount that UK watchers will pay to watch the fight at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.
8862
Rooney has revealed that United's game plan was to target City's work-shy midfield .
’ Rooney’s words will sting City,
8863
Amelia was shocked into a post-graduation diet after being told by her father: 'Boys don't fancy fat girls'
But when I started uni I had a horrific diet.
8864
It was later switched back to in Bristol following objections that Gloucester would struggle to stage such an emotive case.
8865
It is expected to look at how migrant children perform in exams and how schools with large immigrant populations cope.
I am very keen to know.'
8866
Many Britons know the resort because of popular comedy Benidorm, featuring The Garvey Family (pictured) Spain already boasts more than 40 Unesco world heritage sites, including Granada's Alhambra Palace and Donana National Park in Huelva.
8867
The article also commented on the SBS content taking a more 'fluffy' lifestyle approach , which Laing shot back at by insisting  a need for an inclusion of the arts and a more balanced approach to hard news.
8868
Other issues included the 'superiority message' of Lowe's closing phrase, as well as DirecTV's 'rated No. 1 claim' and another that stated that it has been 'ranked higher than cable for over 10 years.'
8869
He said: 'I'm saying that her position is clear because she's a woman, and this is how she feels he conducts himself.
I'm a guy that loves boxing.'
8870
DNAInfo reported that New York's 311 helpline, for non-emergency complaints to city authorities, recorded a total of 133 complaints about loud sex between January 1 2014 and February 12 2015.
8871
A fresh white set is confident and chic, so why not update your smalls by clicking right to get Candice's stylish lace-trimmed bra now?
8872
Phillips was a former director at Middlesbrough and also used to have a surgery in Redcar.
Phillips was also with England in 1974, alongside Kevin Keegan (centre) and Mick Channon .
8873
The offences are alleged to have taken place between December 30 last year and February 26.
‘The offences are alleged to have been committed on one girl aged 15 at the time.
8874
So she plans to share her winnings with family members of her friend, who has not been named.
Dybalski received a lump-sum payment of $522,822 after taxes last month.
8875
The number of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean has been increasing in recent years and they now account for almost ten per cent of the overall black population in the United States.
8876
Last week’s revelations led to a series of stories about Mr Miliband’s tangled love life before he met his wife.
8877
I could arrest you for this.'
Marshall arrested Good after she 'failed to listen to how speeding endangers other drivers.'
Rough arrest:
8878
Paranaense refused, saying that figure fell well short of what they could sell the player for and went to court to settle the dispute.
8879
‘I got a test for chlamydia because I’m sure he cheated on me,’ fumed Sophie during an appearance on the Jeremy Kyle Show.
'I never said that!’ he insisted.
8880
At the same time, detectives from Bossier Parish never stopped trying to identity the body they found mutilated in the woods.
8881
Disciplining a child for doing something wrong is a tricky business.
One Reddit user's mother used her son's naughty behaviour as a cheap means to improve her house.
8882
Dr Richard Nicholl, consultant neonatal paediatrician at London North West Healthcare NHS Trust, said he had seen more than 100 babies with GBS in 20 years.
8883
'In order to get that correct development you need to be patient but if you do get it right you set the club up for a long time.'
'At the end of the day, you have to be careful what you wish for.'
8884
Perhaps even more importantly it would end the growing dominance of Djokovic over the Scot — and everyone else for that matter.
8885
No-one: 4.6% .
That poll, commissioned by the BBC, also found that 32 per cent of Muslims were 'not surprised' that the massacre took place.
8886
Huddersfield took full advantage of the extra man by running in two quick tries, first from Ta'ai a minute later and then Scott Grix on 65 minutes.
8887
Smoke and flames loom over the Prado Dam Flood Control Basin behind homes on Cheyenne Road in Corona, California .
Because the smoke was not blowing away, area residents were urged to stay indoors.
8888
She thinks we need to acknowledge this link to be better equipped to tackle the increasing rate of Australian women who are being negatively affected by stress and anxiety.
8889
If the student had been a juvenile, the case would have been handled by the Dallas Police Department, Miller told The Dallas Morning News.
8890
After her second fail to appear, police issued an arrest warrant.
Police prosecutor Sergeant Scott Pearson said Driscoll had allegedly been dealing cannabis to friends.
8891
'He said: "Girl’s say: No, but they don’t mean it."
When questioned by police the defendant said his date did not object to being touched intimately by him.
8892
Theo Walcott understands just how difficult it is now to hold down a place in the Arsenal side, who he says have been the 'best team in Europe' this year and could lift the title next season if everyone stays fit.
8893
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr. waits backstage before Cook County Commissioner Jesus 'Chuy' Garcia gives his concession speech during an election night event at the University of Illinois .
8894
Lord Janner voted in the House of Lord 210 times between his Alzheimer's diagnosis and the end of 2013, leading some to suggest he could have been prosecuted if authorities had acted sooner.
8895
'West Ham have a fantastic manager in place,' Monk said ahead of Swansea's trip to bottom-placed Leicester on Saturday.
'But West Ham is nothing to do with me.
8896
Jessica Silva reveals on 60 Minutes that 'my head is just full, I can't live with it, I need forgiveness'
Justice Clifton Hoeben sentenced her to two years' imprisonment.
8897
It emerged yesterday that Miss Bevan – who is believed to have had a history of severe mental health problems – had been advised by medics to stop taking the drug ahead of Zaani’s birth.
8898
According to the Daily Times, the group didn't want to press charges against Manhart.
However, police gave her a trespass warning, which bans her from the campus.
8899
'The good news however is that pet obesity is entirely preventable.
Andy Cage from PetAID hospital says that obesity is one of the biggest animal welfare problems .
8900
But British Transport Police officers trawled through CCTV footage to track down the 32-year-old care worker before taking her off a train as she travelled to work in Brough.
8901
Shivnarine Chanderpaul and Steve Davis remain heroic despite their advancing years but what is the point of Formula One?
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL.
NOT .
8902
Producers say he underwent a 'minor procedure' during the Easter production break.
He is believed to have suffered the injury while filming action scenes for 'Spectre' in Mexico.
8903
Blackburn striker Rudy Gestede has revealed his desire to be playing in the Premier League next season .
'I'm ready for the Premier League.
8904
She plans to appeal the conviction.
She subsequently changed her story and said it was self-defense after Alexander attacked her on the day he died.
8905
Bouzemada was also sentenced to an extra six months for breaching a suspended sentence for drug dealing.
Rakheed Daniel, 21, was acquitted of perverting the course of justice.
8906
The way the school has acted makes her feel like she was in the wrong.'
Blackburn with Darwen Council said it was working to support those involved after the allegations.
8907
Judge Mohamed Nagy Shehata, known for his harsh rulings in cases involving the Muslim Brotherhood, also sentenced two Islamists who have fled the country to death.
8908
Newcastle 9/5 .
Adam Johnson has scored three goals and provided one assist in his last four Premier League appearances versus Newcastle United.
8909
Jon Stewart will host his last show on August 6 after he revealed that he decided to quit because he was becoming increasing depressed watching cable news .
8910
Fourteen soldiers dispatched to restore order after a 2013 coup have been accused of abusing children as young as nine as they begged for something to eat, according to a French judicial source.
8911
The planned engineering works over the Easter weekend will hit all routes to and from London Euston – hitting the busy west coast services between the capital and Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool.
8912
‘By using play-acting with your child you can help them feel confident to act in a real emergency scenario, which could potentially save a life.’
8913
In February she suffered what she called a 'brain fade' on LBC Radio when she forgot the details of her party's key housing policies.
8914
Speaking ahead of the weekend meeting with Swansea, Meyler said: 'We are not going down.
'We had some great chances and we need to win these games when you get into those positions.'
8915
Many of the animals found dead in her home were still in cages .
Smith appears to have still been living in the home since one of the rooms was cleaner than the rest.
8916
Cedar Junction is about a mile and a half away from Gillette Stadium, where Hernandez used to play tight end for the New England Patriots .
8917
Records show that she had filed for multiple orders of protection against him and planned to take time off from her teaching job to protect her students from his violent temper.
8918
Sri Lanka's Kumar Sangakkara should reconsider his decision to retire from limited overs cricket and continue for another year, the country's sports minister said on Wednesday.
8919
Following her accident on May 26, last year, Mrs Rawcliffe was taken to the Royal Preston Hospital to meet neurologists.
I'm 40 - I never wanted to retire.
8920
Pursuing past-times and creative outlets has a positive impact on children, she says and promotes healthy lifestyle choices for teenagers and young adults.
8921
Damned if I don't'.
The 30-year-old reality TV star posted - then later deleted - the message 'Pray for Baltimore' to Instagram on Monday night as protests about the unexplained death of Freddie Gray turned to riots in the hours following his funeral.
8922
Video of the killing shows Bates exclaiming that he opened fired by accident, and apologizing.
Attorneys for Harris' family have repeatedly called on Glanz and Albin to resign.
8923
A decade ago he began to take his sport seriously.
Rather, his words illustrated a player fully comprehending his situation at Liverpool and in the market place.
8924
After the Falcons were forced to touch down over their own line, Exeter broke off the back of the five-metre scrum and Ewers barged over the line.
8925
Club are confident that the deal to move into stadium does not contravene domestic or European legislation .
8926
Shop the current collection at Net-A-Porter!
Either way, this is one wardrobe essential that will be in favor with the fashion pack for seasons to come!
8927
Leicester hitman Leonoardo Ulloa (right) strikes the ball to score his side's opening goal against Swansea during the match on Saturday .
8928
'It really was a really nasty incident,' one passenger told the Irish Mirror.
'Oman Air would like to thank the cabin crew for managing this situation calmly and professionally.'
8929
The bail hearing revealed that Kyhesha-Lee suffered blows to her stomach causing severe bowel damage- ultimately leading to her death.
8930
Lisa McElroy, 50, who teaches legal writing at Drexel University, reportedly sent the inappropriate message on March 31 under the subject line: 'Great article on writing briefs.'
8931
‘A fight with Wladimir doesn’t concern me because I know I will beat him, it’s just a matter of how and what round I do the job in.
8932
Well, first of all I can say to you publicly, "I love you."'
Simpson Miller said she hoped Obama understood how important his visit is to Jamaica.
8933
?’ she told the BBC.
But Mrs Saunders has insisted that  Sir Richard's friendship with Mr Carman would have no influence on the review.
8934
Clearly on good form, Charles was visiting the Rheged Centre to inspect a photo exhibition entitled Herdwick: A Portrait of a Lakeland.
Passion:
8935
The hours old baby girl was found trapped in a tied plastic bag inside a dumpster (pictured above) located in an apartment complex in Myrtle Beach .
8936
From 5pm Sunday until almost the same time the next day, followers of the Scooter's Facebook page were sent links such as this one, instead of the regular images of smoothies and cookies .
8937
Elmwood Park Police Chief Michael Foligno confirmed Biskup's claim, but would not provide further details.
8938
Nowadays hundreds of the cuddly toys are sold on sites such as eBay - but they are not always worth as much money as collectors would originally have hoped.
8939
Despite being a healthy size 10 (US 6), Liris received rejection after rejection due to her voluptuous shape.
And now she's starting to break the UK.
8940
Carnes has begun posting photos of herself applying makeup and even changing in men's public bathrooms (above)
It’s just not right.'
8941
He argued that the strange material coming from the titanium ball is biological and could in fact be a colony of tiny microorganisms.
8942
In her time off, she volunteers at a church, reported Philadelphia Inquirer.
Ginneti's attorney asked the judge to spare her jail time so she could care for her small children.
8943
Today, it's a sight to behold, mixing history with modern luxury.
Guests can take full advantage of Thermal Heaven at the spa, exploring its various treatment rooms .
8944
U.S. Navy and Coast Guard and Royal Canadian Navy ships have seized more than 28 tons of cocaine valued at $848 million in the last six months .
8945
Uber offered to help in the investigation of the incident.
Manfredi said the altercation took place in one of San Francisco's busiest neighborhoods.
8946
Melissa Wilson and her team-mates are on the brink of making history.
‘At Henley it’s straight, so conditions are largely the same the whole way down,’ said Reid.
8947
Liverpool and Newcastle players took part in a minute silence before their Premier League match at Anfield on Monday night in memory of the 96 fans who died at Hillsborough almost 26 years ago.
8948
Officials say McKinnon was driving east along Lake Pickett Road at around 5.30am when she lost control of her 2008 Mitsubishi Eclipse while trying to navigate a curve in the road.
8949
The SNP leader used a BBC TV debate on Thursday night to offer to ‘lock David Cameron out of Downing Street’ – even if Labour has fewer seats than the Tories in a hung parliament.
8950
Further tests put the skeleton’s age at death between 20 and 29.
Belgian archaeologist Dominique Bosquet shows the place where he found the remains of the German soldier .
8951
I will be a very active granny, that’s for sure – and I can’t wait to introduce them to tennis.’
On The One Show last night, the mother of the groom said it was a ‘perfect’ day.
8952
He was dismissed after the sex clip of his tryst at Mossley AFC in Tameside was shared on social media and has now begged for his 25-year-old girlfriend Bryony Hibbert's forgiveness .
8953
Greg Hardy has been suspended by the NFL after an incident of domestic abuse that allegedly occurred last year.
His previous conviction was the result of a bench trial.
8954
'Once we form a positive impression of another person, good luck trying to change our mind' Trading Rose Colored Glasses for Reading Glasses .
8955
The latest images were shown to the media by Philippine military chief General Gregorio Pio Catapang.
Construction at Chigua (Kennan) Reef in the disputed Spratly Islands.
8956
Many Anatolian sties show signs of violent battles and abandonment.
He said: 'Even with all of our technological advancements, we are not immune.'
8957
Harvey Weinstein's wife Georgina Chapman today gushed online about her 'wonderful husband'  - just days after it emerged he would not face criminal charges for allegedly groping an Italian model.
8958
Westerners fighting for ISIS are taking part in a sickening circle of violent one-upmanship in order to prove themselves to commanders who consider European militants little more than cannon fodder.
8959
Kellogg's is the latest US owned multinational to be embroiled in the controversy over tax avoidance in Britain.
These tax manoeuvres are perfectly legal.
8960
'These stunning views can be seen from both sides of the aircraft,' she said.
Enjoy a scenic tour of London as you fly to Heathrow, here pictured on the right side of the plane .
8961
According to the Indonesian Attorney-General, the pair won't be executed until the conclusion of the Asian African conference being held in Jakarta this week.
8962
Unemployed Simon - who has convictions for robbery, burglary, theft and drug supply - moved to Derby in a bid to evade police when news of the body find broke - but was arrested with Bird on May 19 and charged two days later.
8963
He said a provisional post-mortem examination showed Mrs Wood, of Knottingley, West Yorkshire, died of multiple injuries.
8964
When he vanished people were being urged not to go to Scotland's mountains unless they had the proper equipment and experience due to the severe weather conditions.
8965
Jason Warnock was named as the hero who rescued 23-year-old Mathew Sitko after he crashed his car on Wednesday morning, causing it to hang off a canyon cliff in Lewiston, Idaho.
8966
Shocked neighbours heard yelling and screaming moments before Ms Huxham was abducted from her home by a man who reportedly attacked her with a machete.
8967
However Martin revealed what really happened in a Facebook post - prompting Silverman's apology.
She also admitted her anecdote had not been a good example of the gender pay gap.
8968
'But I think it helped.
'It's going to take a lot of work, but being able to support people who suffered like I did will make it all worthwhile.'
8969
David Cameron was wrong to assume that Libya's political culture and institutions could be left to evolve and transform on their own.
8970
'Regardless of the freshness of the chicken, KFC's biggest selling products are still prepared in a manner that leaves them high in things like fat and salt,' Ms Jones told Daily Mail Australia .
8971
NJ.com reports that Adams faces federal drug smuggling charges.
Thenga Adams now faces federal narcotics smuggling charges for the drugs allegedly found in his sneakers .
8972
A married mother of two battling cancer  whose removal from an Alaska Airlines flight caused outrage online said on Wednesday that the carrier refunded her family's airfare, which will be donated to research.
8973
Carlos Tevez has been told to terminate his contract with Juventus to complete a return to his former club Boca Juniors in Argentina.
8974
According to The Weather Channel, the storms will move across the Midwest on Thursday with St Louis, Louisville, Memphis, Indianapolis, Little Rock, Oklahoma City and Dallas hit hardest .
8975
She argued that any Nazis still alive should instead come forward to speak publicly about what they did to help counter the threat of neo-Nazi Holocaust deniers in Germany.
8976
A third-grade teacher and married mother of three from Florida has been charged with selling acid and Xanax pills to an undercover officer with her 20-year-old boyfriend.
8977
Chavez instead took on Fonfara in a light-heavyweight bout at StubHub Center in Carson, California, but was thoroughly outclassed by his Polish opponent.
8978
Mr Johnson recieves an ethusiastic kiss - as female support for the Tory Mayor shows no sign of abating .
8979
'I can definitely improve, I can learn more tricks.
Botham has a word with Anderson following his bowling feat at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium .
8980
He admits he was the shooter, his defense attorneys say, but schizophrenia had taken control of his mind and compelled him to kill.
8981
The family of Alix Bussey, 23,said she was devoted to the children she taught and that they have been left devastated by her death.
8982
According to WCVB, she said the incident could have resulted in mistrial.
The station was told to 'investigate' the matter before reporting back to the court.
8983
Sterling's comments in the BBC interview have heightened speculation he will depart Anfield this summer .
'What he said absolutely underpins everything we’re trying to achieve here.
8984
He added that the American Eagle jet could have landed on an adjacent, 10,000-foot runway that was lit.
He said he didn't know why the pilot didn't land on the shorter runway.
8985
Weinstein has reportedly made himself available for questioning whenever needed, and no charges have been formally filed against him at this time.
8986
Deni then revealed that she was a journalist on a mission and asked him to divulge the reason why he gave her a free coffee - and how other people can get one, too.
8987
The naked bodies of a young couple are found stuffed in boxes in a northern Indian state, the suspected victims of an honour killing .
8988
He said Fox, a former Pop Idol judge, allegedly assaulted two girls at a motor show in Bromley, South East London, in the summer of 1991 while appearing there as a DJ.
8989
Monks pray inside the biggest temple of the town.
Prayer stones decorate the colourful Buddhist academy, which is only accessible by a long coach journey .
8990
In Melbourne, protesters clashed with anti-racism activists in Federation Square.
Australians have a right to say this is not going to work.
8991
'How often do you wake up and find your baby has a college savings before he’s even 10 hours old?'
'This is a good head start,' he said.
8992
Talib, who owned both weapons.
In addition to the gun incidents, Talib was investigated after an alleged assault on a Florida cab driver.
8993
Mack and Schaefer were arrested the following day at another Bali hotel.
The child was later allowed to be taken back to the prison with her mother.
8994
Suchet, best known as the star of TV series Poirot, is fighting for better treatment for those with rare diseases and has criticised ‘disorganisation’ in the NHS for slowing down the process.
8995
Many watch enthusiasts would argue that Mark-Francis has already reached that goal - he currently owns a number of pieces that are worth several thousand pounds
8996
She added: 'I'm a cosplay community manager - it's about the community for me, seeing people grow and be empowered and accepted, especially when it comes to women'
8997
He was also the architect and first head of the USSR.
Some of the techniques have had real-world medical applications, according to Scientific American.
8998
In response to the recent violence, the South African army has been deployed to areas in that remain volatile after a spate of attacks targeting immigrants, the defense minister announced on Tuesday .
8999
Both will be handed spots in Gareth Southgate’s squad for the Under 21 Euros at the end of this season.
He's a prospect for English football.
9000
He was caught smoking in the wake of Arsenal's 2-0 Premier League loss at Southampton on New Year's Day and has only made Cup appearances since then.
9001
Earlier this year, it was widely reported that the brigade would be made up of 2,000 social media and psychological warfare exponents who would enable UK forces to fight wars ‘in the information age’.
9002
Ms Prince has claimed that she suffered her injury as the company Ardent Leisure was negligent and set poor working conditions.
9003
To applause and cheers from his supporters, who included many parents at the school, Bantleman said that he would appeal the verdict: 'We will continue to fight until the truth comes out.'
9004
And staff at Rome’s Fiumicino Airport spotted a man curled up on the conveyor after a 55-yard free ride.
9005
Victim: Staff sergeant Shawn Manning was shot six times during the Fort Hood attack - but claims he is being denied vital financial support .
9006
And for openly-gay high school junior, Anthony Martinez, he'd reached his wits' end trying to find a 'boy date'.
'I couldn't ask for a better friend.'
9007
Harry Redknapp has claimed 'people with their own agendas' had a hand in his resignation as QPR manager, describing the situation as 'a bit of a soap opera'.
'There was always talk about Tim Sherwood coming in.
9008
Her unique look has also previously been emulated by many celebrities.
Frida stands in the grounds of her gardens, her pose striking against the flora and fauna .
9009
Care home staff tried to contact Border over an outstanding £16,000 debt over two years before reporting her to police.
He added: 'She is 54, of good character.
9010
‘There will be no confidence factor come Sunday — I can assure you of that.
It’s how we react to it, and Sunday can’ t come quickly enough for me.’
9011
After hacking into the university computer system, Uddin changed the marks that he had been given for previous assessments.
9012
His father searched for the boy's body but it took him 15 minutes to find his son in the ditch (above)
'I just heard a very, very distinct, scary scream.'
9013
Former Bradford City chairman Stafford Heginbotham, left, with Mr Justice Popplewell in the aftermath of the Bradford City fire.
9014
The performance was topped off with a penalty save from Ross Barkley and his showing bodes well for Burnley's hopes of a great escape.
9015
Noticing:
A firefighter who had the animal in her hands said that the tiny pet had been hiding from the fire in an empty Modelo beer box.
9016
Gray has one year left on his contract but will be released should the club go down, with fellow Scotland internationals Johnnie Beattie and Max Evans also expected to leave.
9017
Jason Dufner (US), Jimmy Walker (US) 15:50
Ryaan Palmer (US), Matt Kuchar (US) 16:20
Paul Casey (Eng), Ian Poulter (Eng) 19:10
9018
The grieving parents of a college student who was allegedly choked to death by her roommate last week have paid tribute to her.
Comfort:
9019
Beer cans litter the ground as Illini Bluffs High School senior Sam Giftos acts the role of the drunken driver involved in a fatal prom night accident Thursday in Glasford .
9020
Villa moved six points clear of the Premier League relegation zone after Saturday's 1-0 win against Tottenham at White Hart Lane and face Liverpool in the FA Cup semi-final at Wembley next weekend.
9021
In the future it will be possible to change the proximity needed for the card to unlock the phone.
‘The card is waterproof, so you could go swimming with it.
9022
'A few referees have tried telling me but I've got to keep it like that,' Grealish added.
'He said I deserve my start which is nice to hear and it really gives me a bit of a boost.'
9023
Redacted: These are the official records of Robert Bates' training - which the Tulsa World is claiming have been beefed up .
However, Glanz has denied that Bates 'paid to play a cop'.
9024
'The residential area of the skyscraper represents a constantly growing and developing spatial complex...printed by 3D printer or by drone construction.
The skyscraper itself is powered by solar energy.
9025
The new plans underline China's increasing influence in Nepal, after years of improving the infrastructure of the nation.
9026
The same by-election saw six complaints made to Medway Council, one of which was about the apparent unsuitability of a candidate, as well as the length of time it took to count the votes and announce the result.
9027
'Everyone heckles him, but Marseille fans would have loved if he had played with OM,' Anigo told Le 10 Sport.
'He reminds me of Cantona.'
9028
Experts say their stings are not powerful enough to do any serious harm, but warn swimmers that it is best not to touch them.
9029
Deep down, the FA will long for an Arsenal-Liverpool final.
‘There is everything still to play for and we can still make it a really successful season,’ he said.
9030
For Notts County star Ellen White, Thursday night was a night to remember as she managed both at the same time against Arsenal in the Women's Super League.
9031
And for the best deal on a freshly dry-cleaned shirt, prices in Jakarta, Indonesia hover around £2.04.
£9.26                                 £7.29 .
9032
'It shouldn't even be a debate,' said Mourinho.
Mourinho will risk playing Cesc Fabregas for Chelsea's matches with their rivals, despite his yellow card tally .
9033
Back home in Madrid the Atletico supporters were delirious at the news.
Mandzukic told his manager recently that he had regularly played through injury and wanted resting.
9034
Mr Esgar said that he 'witnessed a tireless stream of anonymous people saying things that would be inappropriate for a younger audience.
9035
Obama and Wozniacki embrace as the event is broadcast on the popular show Live! with Kelly and Michael .
9036
Paul Gilbert even joked that he hoped his 'off-piste' comment would not 'find it's way back' to the Labour leadership, because he stands little hope of winning in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire.
9037
Bridget Klecker, 42, died on Friday after being struck by a vehicle fleeing the police in San Francisco .
The three men who were in it were still at large as of Friday night.
9038
The woman, who police did not identify by name, said she often thought about escaping but stayed out of fear, even though in recent years she was not physically held captive.
9039
It is difficult to tell whether the players or manager is at fault because they won the league last year with the same players.
9040
'I recommend to everyone they wear protection on their heads,' he said.
'We follow various people and 'Nugget' Miller never wore anything on his head, so I didn't.
9041
The former Scottish Secretary said talking up the threat posed by the Scottish nationalists was 'short-term and dangerous'.
She also backed Labour's proposed tax rises.
9042
Photographers line the water's shore to take the perfect shot of the rare bird, only in the UK for the third time .
We don't know how long it has even been here.
9043
Pietersen’s quest for an improbable return to international cricket began as his scriptwriter must have known it would: with sumptuous strokes, a standing ovation and much of the old bravado.
9044
Alex got this response when he asked the Russian-language version of 'Siri, gay clubs around me?'
'Why is its Russian Siri so homophobic?'
9045
Internet companies will have to reveal names, IP addresses and residential addresses of 4,726 people who uploaded the film The Dallas Buyers Club online illegally .
9046
While Sarah's exact colorway is from a previous season, we actually think that this season's current collection pattern is much more exciting!
9047
‘It would be great to see Lewis at Ferrari,’ said Ecclestone ahead of practice for Sunday's Bahrain Grand Prix.
‘Winning a second title gives you an extra hop in your walk.
9048
But Thomassey disputes that Morton meant to kill Mangan.
He says the boys were horsing around with a loaded gun when Mangan was shot in the left eye.
9049
A guest reportedly told a security guard at the luxury hotel that there was a very intoxicated man on the premises.
The security guard then called the police.
9050
One baby has been incorporated into a complicated Harry Potter scenario, complete with round-framed glasses, suitcases for Hogwarts and a magic wand .
9051
'I was told to stick to flats or shoes with a very low heel and to spend as much time barefoot as possible to help correct my posture, which had been thrown out of alignment by wearing heels day in and day out,' she says.
9052
A red hot Novak Djokovic is being tipped to end Rafa Nadal's stranglehold at Roland Garros in June but the Spaniard dismissed the threat as being no different to those he has faced before.
9053
Champions League only: .
Friday's draw at UEFA's headquarters in Nyon leaves open the possibility of a first ever Barcelona v Real Madrid final.
9054
Kirby, of Newcastle, initially denied rape.
After his initial arrest I was hopeful for the future and felt free and that I could begin to rebuild my life.
9055
The modest property shows signs of age and wear-and-tear.
On Friday morning, media watched as police stationed in two paddy-wagons kept an eye on the property.
9056
I Am Jazz is a book about a child 'with a boy's body and a girl's brain' who eventually finds a doctor that tells the family the boy is a transgender .
9057
He said he only needed 23 seats to win a majority, before adding: ‘If I fall short of those 23 seats I will feel I have not succeeded.’
9058
Something has to give: Pryce, pictured here in 2013 with Professor Noreena Hertz (left) admits she never baked cakes for her children and would often be late for parties .
9059
Speaking to The Daily Mail, Sir Stirling said he sees fitness as a 'way of life' which is why he is still so confident behind the wheel.
9060
She ditched the van within days and flew back to the East Coast, travelling coach.
'I think there are things that went on at the Clinton Foundation that are going to shock people.'
9061
However, upon relocating she said she's been faced with the realisation, that much like her native South Africa: ‘The deepest and most abiding forms of racism’ in Australia are directed toward our own indigenous population.
9062
Manchester United legends Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Paul Scholes showed off their netball skills when they joined Manchester Thunder netball team to promote the Superleague semi-finals.
9063
Still, people who knew Sadek are shocked by what happened.
Sadek had been working with a drug task force as a confidential informant after he was caught selling marijuana on campus in 2013.
9064
A poll of 2,000 Britons found that 68 per cent had hurt themselves doing odd jobs or decorating.
However, it seems DIYers are failing to prepare properly for a weekend of exertions.
9065
Those who began digging up the corpses today described the scene as 'heartbreaking'.
'At least the families will soon know the fate of their sons and cousins,' said one relative .
9066
The University of Connecticut baseball team has taken on its newest member: 5-year-old Grayson Hand, who is battling leukemia .
Hand's sister Sophie, 7, was also taken on as an honorary cheereleader .
9067
Chanelle Scheepers of South Africa won 6-2 2-6 6-4 against New Zealand's Marina Erakovic while Croatian Ajla Tomljanovic beat Romania's Alexandra Dulgheru 7-6 (7/5) 4-6 6-4.
9068
Recording the bird in slow motion, the video maker later noted that the pelican looked majestic, content and relaxed at this point in the clip.
9069
He described to the court how he swung his arms outwards from his face and felt them connect with Mr Phillips.
Finlay was later forced to leave the ship and make his own way home.
9070
The bears are guarded by the state to prevent illegal poaching and hunting - meaning the bears are more friendly towards humans without the threat of violence.
9071
In an emotional press conference on Thursday, the 45-year-old politician said he met with doctors who told him chemotherapy and radiation have shrunk the tumor to a size where they can operate.
9072
The teenager, identified as Zeynab Daghastani, was shot and killed as she made her way through the southern streets of the Al-Yarmouk Camp towards the nearby neighbourhood of Yalda.
9073
Walker, 46, said police brass applauded the drug squad because they made big arrests that made them look good.
It was nothing but a dog and pony show.
9074
'But the final straw was when I came across someone's cruel Facebook status about me 'never having my head out of the fridge'.
'And I also really enjoyed the Slimming World diet.
9075
Earlier he had  told the court he has 'never been suicidal.'
Robert Dellinger thanks his family and friends for their support in court on Wednesday.
9076
In an affidavit, police say a witness noticed the girl driving Smith's car with Smith sitting in the passenger seat.
However Smith backed her car into Smith's truck.
9077
The Brazilian defender immediately signalled to the bench that he would need to be replaced .
PSG will hope their star defender can recover quickly, as he is a key part of their plans .
9078
This condition causes fluid-filled cysts to grow in the kidneys, so they expand in size.
The patient was diagnosed with ADPKD, which is potentially lethal, last year.
One of the kidneys the doctors removed weighed 6lbs (2.7kg) (is pictured on the scales) 'The patient is recovering and awaiting a kidney transplant.'
9079
Real Madrid winger Gareth Bale will be rested for Saturday's La Liga game at home to Eibar, coach Carlo Ancelotti said on Friday, meaning the Welshman joins suspended midfielders Toni Kroos and James Rodriguez on the sidelines.
9080
But the latest move by the EU marks the first time the company has been accused of wrongdoing.
More than two dozen European organisations have filed antitrust complaints against Google.
9081
Bury began the night a point ahead of the Shrimpers after winning 1-0 at Portsmouth on Saturday but despite chances they couldn't hit the target.
9082
However, refusing to take no for an answer, she wrote back, saying: 'After careful consideration, I regret to inform you that I am unable to accept your refusal to offer me admission into the Fall 2015 freshman class at Duke.
9083
Spanish newspaper Mundo Deportivo report that an All-Star match has been proposed that would bring together the cream of European talent - including Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi (pictured)
9084
A retired covert officer identified as Meredith says sex isn't a major part of the spy game.
We are not going to put all our money in one basket,' she said.
9085
Mundo Deportivo splash about Lionel Messi's fitness while AS say it is 'operation 30 points' for Carlo Ancelotti .
9086
Uncle Jamie lives with Travis after his parets died a few years ago .
He vows that if all goes well he will be auditioning for The Voice for the 2016 season.
9087
It is the first time scientists have been able to fully understand how octopuses are able to control their movements without a rigid skeleton.
9088
By 7.30pm Xiao Zhengti’s operation was successfully completed, and he was also moved to recovery.
Dr Dong told reporters 'The operation was extremely successful and went according to plan.
9089
Clinton emerged from the meeting and greeted a handful of onlookers in Council Bluffs, Iowa .
On Wednesday near Des Moines, Iowa, Daily Mail Online trailed Clinton's motorcade.
9090
It's a dream for every person; very few get there.
I feel extremely honoured to be No1, it's something that I've worked for all my life,' Mirza said in a statement.
9091
After 21 years in the same apartment Blomberg is currently looking for new accommodation for her and the cats.
It killed two people and leveled three buildings.
9092
Twitter has officially rolled out its ‘retweet with comment’ feature, which, unsurprisingly lets people annotate the tweets of others.
9093
Vuckic has won over Rangers fans with six goals from 10 games, including this strike against Hearts .
I want to play first-team.
9094
Yesterday, they failed in a bid to persuade a judge to throw out her claim before it could come to trial, setting the scene for a potentially explosive court battle.
9095
As a young man, he learnt the hazards of absent-minded cooking after he tipped and entire stock he had worked on for hours down the sink.
Simon is now hoping to open a restaurant of his own .
9096
Dr Phil: In a bar!
She told Dr. Phil she pulled into the hotel because she felt the alcohol was unexpectedly hitting her.
What?
Kim: No.
Right.
9097
She told him that her kidnapper was still inside, but had fallen asleep.
She warned him her kidnapper was still armed and inside the home.
9098
A man has been arrested for stealing Elton John's iconic heart-shaped glasses from a Memphis museum.
The glasses were to be put back on display on Wednesday.
9099
Cheddar (left) is Britain's most popular cheese with 80% of us choosing it over fancier varieties like French Brie (right) 1. Cheddar (80%) 2. Mozzarella (38%) 3.
9100
Dowd was succeeded at City by Joe Corrigan but continued playing at Stoke City before ending his career at Oldham Athletic in 1974.
9101
You should see it.
Cantona has defended the film, saying it is 'a work of art' and 'beautiful', and not a porn film as some have said .
9102
The accounts also reveal that £29.8million was spent on signings after June 30, with £12.6million coming in player sales - mainly from Mathieu Debuchy's move to Arsenal.
9103
The never-ending chaos at Leeds continued on Friday as six players withdrew from Saturday's game at Charlton citing injury.
a serious professional
9104
Duggan pictured in action for Manchester City during a Women's Super League match earlier this month .
9105
Regulator Ofgem said the penalty reflected E.ON's 'repeated failings' on billing rules after the company incorrectly imposed exit fees and overcharged customers .
9106
‘The plan was to go to Penarth but we did not have enough money for the taxi – I ran off in one direction, Jacob went in another direction,’ Mr Robinson told the inquest.
9107
Fabregas was caught in the face by Stoke City midfielder Adam's flailing arm during their game .
While an Arsenal player in 2008, Fabregas suffered a broken nose playing for Spain.
9108
According to the Post, the tenants who so adored Body have now taken up his cause with a petition to get him reinstated to his job.
9109
'It's always good to have teams looking out for you, it shows how well you've been doing all season,' Clyne told Sky Sports News.
9110
The TV channel E4 will shut down for 12 hours on the day of the general election to encourage more youngsters to vote.
9111
Antonio Nunez allegedly stabbed his girlfriend in the backside with a pitchfork during an argument .
Nuñez will be charged with aggravated assault, the Houston Chronicle reported.
9112
Froch declared willingness if Ward returns the compliment by travelling to the UK, having won their first meeting in the US.
9113
It's an impressive tally for the 34-year-old, who will no doubt be hoping he can mark another memorable season with a personal best of having featured in all 38 Premier League games come the end of the season.
9114
Another added: 'How about a shirt that says "attention boys...this is my body and I do what I want with it...neither you nor my dad make any of the rules...and ps I may not even be into boys.'
9115
Indicted: Lyvette Crespo (right) allegedly shot her husband, Bell Gardens, California Mayor Daniel Crespo (left), in September during a heated argument about his infidelity.
Crespo Indictment by scprweb .
9116
The show is set to premiere this summer.
The show for FYI is produced by Kinetic Content who also produce the love-based show Married At First Sight.
9117
When Patrick was delivered at the same hospital, the same errors were made, leaving her son brain damaged and severely disabled like his older sister.
9118
Cudjoe-Calvocoressi left the station but was soon found and arrested by police and was charged with indecent exposure.
He was also told to sign the sex offenders register for five years.
9119
Australia's population growth is set to slow sharply through 2015, according to Goldman Sachs, with births declining 'at the fastest rate on record' and uncertain labour markets affecting net migration .
9120
Both of Henthron's wives died in 'freak' accidents to which Henthorn, 59, was the sole witness.
Both ‘freak accidents’ occurred at remote locations with Henthorn the lone witness.
9121
Lewis Hamilton poses for the latest edition of Men's Health magazine released on Thursday April 2 .
The two-time Formula One champion features on the front cover of the new issue .
9122
Some coins are raised to the surface during a pioneering recovery project by a British-led team .
DOS has left a plaque commemorating their find on the sea bed.
9123
Manager: Diego Simeone .
Hernandez's starting place for Real Madrid was described by local media as the 'biggest match of his career' and he lived up to it .
9124
Three already offers a similar scheme called Feel at Home that lets customers use their phones and their plans in 18  countries.
9125
Before the diagnosis, Wilson said she had 'vigilantly monitored' her health with mammograms and MRIs because she knew she had an underlying condition of LCIS, (lobular carcinoma in situ)'.
9126
'I hope the focus is becoming more about the skills I have,' she said, referring to her time spent being known as little more than Harry's girl.
9127
He added that he even attempted suicide in a bid to escape the abusive conditions at his home, WXYZ reported.
He appeared to be shocked by the news (pictured)
9128
Rebecca's computer searches revealed she had searched for ways to commit suicide and asked questions like: 'What is overweight for a 13-year-old girl?'
9129
A dismembered body discovered at a flat in Wales has been identified as Tracey Woodford (above) who has been missing since Tuesday, police revealed .
A post-mortem is likely to take place today.
9130
Jamie Carragher does not feel Diego Simeone plays the right type of football for the Premier League big boys .
'But they're playing Real Madrid.
9131
‘It makes more sense to have a jockey based over there.
AP McCoy (right) was unplaced at his last ride at Cheltenham but rides in the Scottish Grand National .
9132
Ambitious: Boris Johnson admitted last night he hopes to be considered to lead the Conservative Party after David Cameron.
Potential successors:
9133
Good parents: The two have been on good terms as they share custody of their two children; here they are pictured in January 2014 .
Their split was announced on her website Goop.
9134
Again, like Rory, the driver also happens to be the best club in her bag.
Hull recalled the last time she played Turnberry, in the Health Perception Championship.
9135
These are the shocking images of a pet owner's squalor living conditions in Adelaide, where he raised his three cats .
9136
Yet the usual problems prevail.
‘It’s completely clear that you’ve got it all wrong,’ he accused.
The latter part of which shouldn’t, really, have appealed to his players.
9137
The Toffees have been sponsored by Thai beverage Chang Beer for over 11 years and Jagielka, who scored the winner against Southampton on Saturday, was on hand to visit Chaophraya restaurant in Liverpool for a special cookery lesson.
9138
But after advertising the sale, interest in the work took off.
Mr Bromell explained it was very difficult to judge the painting.
9139
Richie Benaud made commentary look easy.
And, boy, he loved the game.
ON CAPTAINCY . 'The hallmark of a great captain is the ability to win the toss, at the right time.'
9140
Britain (left) is a country where 34.2% of managers are women.
The United States was ranked within the top 20 countries in the world, at 15th place, as 42.7 per cent of all managers are female.
9141
Belated apology:
However, as he was being led in handcuffs and shackles out of the courtroom, the teenager told a swarm of reporters he was 'sorry.'
9142
A map showing the areas of Leeds, where the rapist had been stalking women on the night of the attack .
He is seen walking behind her, six inches from her back pocket.
9143
She alleged that Zayn had asked her to share a shower with him before taking her to the bedroom of the apartment where he was staying.
9144
Although the fully-functioning pistol was designed to be a piece of art, potential owners will require a gun licence to buy one and special export licences if they want to take it out of Switzerland.
9145
In the video, Bates can be heard shouting 'Taser! Taser!'
Mix up: While on the Today show, he showed where he keeps his Taser (left) compared to where he keeps his gun (right).
9146
Apple's tests were carried out in March 2015 with a pre-production Apple Watch and software paired with an iPhone using pre-production software.
9147
Once back in Australia, Ms Garrett and her daughters settled down to life in Queensland for two years, until the dramatic scenes which saw them returned to Italy.
9148
Derinkuyu was once home to 20,000 residents living together underground, in a city eleven levels deep with 600 entrances.
9149
'The extraordinary sale of the Australia 108 penthouse sets a new benchmark for pricing, breaking all records ever set in Australia.
9150
Even optimists say any measures agreed at Thursday's summit would not fully stem the tide of unstable ships crossing the Mediterranean.
9151
'If you have big players then you have to discuss these matters - as it influences the future of the club.
The club must continue beyond these players.
9152
It should have been plain sailing for the hosts from then on but Jordan Brown levelled the scores on the stroke of half-time.
9153
Leeim was born with spina bifida, a developmental congenital disorder that starts in the womb when a baby's spine doesn't form properly .
Morseman said his family is very supportive of him running marathons.
9154
This is just a joke."'
Last words: Junior says he was scared he was going to die, so he sent a text message to his mother, saying he loved her.
9155
People love to watch them, certainly more than Jose Mourinho’s teams.
Keown (right) and Wenger go back a long way, after Keown's two stints at Arsenal during his career .
9156
Puren - who has died aged 96 - was the youngest brother of the final Qing monarch Puyi (above), who ruled for four years until 1912 .
9157
Ms Mihai does not know when the end point to this battle will be, but she has had her temporary Visa extended until June 26 which is when she is expecting to receive a final decision.
9158
Tahlequah police said a package intercepted in Tulsa County contained an Easter bunny stuffed with $30,000 worth of meth.
Police arrested Carolyn Ross who was looking out for the package to arrive .
9159
Moments later, Rudison’s son joined the group in the parking lot and a tussle ensued.
Her son has been named a person of interest in the parking lot attack.
9160
Anyone with information is asked to contact British Transport Police on 0800 40 50 40, or text 61016, quoting reference B9 MSUB of 24/3/15.
9161
Costa has been sidelined four times this season with his hamstrings, which also gave him trouble at the tail end of his last campaign with Atletico Madrid.
9162
The former Atletico Madrid striker is currently commanding £280,000 a week in wages and had to suffer the ignominy of playing for United's Under 21 team in March.
9163
The play was different class.
Former Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas walks off the Emirates Stadium pitch as Chelsea close in on the title .
9164
Games: 41.
Position: Striker.
Games: 37.
Deeney has been consistently excellent for Watford over the last three seasons .
Games: 36.
Games: 41.
9165
Simon Mignolet has revealed how his mental strength helped him recover after being dropped .
It’s great to play behind a solid team.'
9166
She said that the former Leicester MP was investigated in 1991, 2002 and 2006 but mistakes meant he was never charged.
9167
'I call it unlucky,' the Dutchman said.
'It was disappointing to be on the bench and I think it was a great way to react by not starting the game.'
9168
I love seeing players take control of the big moments and Leighton was happy to given him that responsibility.'
9169
Millions of fake condoms sold by a gang across China have been seized by police after they were found to contain toxic metals.
9170
Pixie Lott appeared to have taken beauty tips from Julia Roberts as she forgot to shave her armpits ahead of The Dark Knight Rises premiere in London in 2012, left, while Juliette Lewis shows off her version of the au natural look at a party .
9171
Side effects from traditional anti-cancer treatments are reduced because only cancer cells with genetic defects are targeted.
9172
The manager said he was 'relaxed' about his contract situation and that Liverpool are a 'superpower' of world football and don't have to sell their best players.
9173
She recalled: 'In 2009 she left him saying she wasn't happy.
He then drove to a police station and told them he had a dead body in his car.
9174
But she was stunned upon her return to class in Lincolnshire to be told she must make up the missed time for the ‘unauthorised absence’.
9175
Over 150 shopping trolleys have so far being recovered as well as numerous bikes and wheels as well as several mopeds and cars .
9176
The Directorate of Religious Affairs for Turkey stated that the use of the material for hygiene is acceptable but water was preferable .
9177
Matty Smith kicked the goal to make it 6-0 and Saints had to scramble to prevent Manfredi and his centre Anthony Gelling adding to the Warriors' lead.
9178
'Honestly, I didn't even believe we were going until about month before we left when Epiphany told me that everything was in order for us to leave,' he said.
9179
Bayern Munich were crowned Bundesliga champions for the third year running without even kicking a ball on Sunday as their nearest rivals Wolfsburg went down to a 1-0 defeat at Borussia Monchengladbach.
9180
Ziegler  (cetnre, with his mother, second left) had his conviction for capital murder quashed in 2012 after a judge blasted his initial trial, allowing him to cut a plea deal  which saw him walk free today .
9181
At present the rechargeable aluminium battery generates about two volts of electricity, the highest achieved yet with aluminium,'  but the researchers said the battery has only half the voltage of existing technology.
9182
This man was quick to show his guns on the Flex Cam on April 12 .
In your face: In case the man in front of her could not see her huge muscles she gave him a closer look .
9183
Davis could return to the Southampton side to face Hull .
Allan McGregor is out of form for Hull and could be rested by manager Steve Bruce .
Southampton 4/9 .
9184
Aaron Lennon has impressed on Merseyside since moving on loan from Tottenham Hotspur in January .
Head-to-head league record: Everton wins 56, draws 40, Manchester United wins 75 .
9185
A Kurdish female fighter from Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) checks her gun near Ras al-Ain, in the province of Hasakah, Syria, after capturing the city from Islamist rebels in 2013 .
9186
Eagle-eyed viewers spotted Charlie Stayt's embarrassing spelling error during a live broadcast .
Presenter Sally Nugent added: 'I don't think that spelling mistake was that bad.'
9187
The government has backed the move, and Sandile Memela, the spokesman for the arts and culture ministry, said they are working to see if the country can take an ‘official position’ on statues and other colonial symbols.
9188
Eerie:
He then suggested they appeared to be 'samurai boots to me'.
In my opinion, it's nothing more than a splash of water,' wrote Max Meara.
9189
Kim Copeland, 52, was walking home from her local Sainsbury’s store in Coventry when she threw the used cigarette on the ground - before two council officers came ‘sprinting’ towards her to say she had committed a criminal offence.
9190
'It was very kind of you and I hadn't found a garter yet so thanks ever so much.
The reception will be held at Cromlix, which Murray owns.
9191
They will probably win the Champions League,' Ibrahimovic admitted.
Star men Zlatan Ibrahimovic (left) and Marco Verratti were unable to influence the game in PSG's favour .
9192
Shia paramilitary fighters looting and setting fire to buildings in Tikrit are 'out of control', an official said.
We can't control what is going on,' he said.
9193
Danish prime minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt cut a glamorous figure in her sequinned black gown .
The Danish royals toured Copenhagen following the balcony appearance .
9194
Liverpool are favourites to reach the final but the Wales international maintains there is no complacency in the group.
Everyone is ready to make that leap.
9195
Shockingly, authorities thought that only one person had been killed by the impact, but discovered to their horror that an entire family had been crushed to death according to KIRO TV.
9196
A report on the threat posed by Australian foreign fighters has blamed the Abbott government's troubled relations with the Muslim community for worsening the situation .
9197
So she had an abortion, while he suddenly seemed to get better – better enough to leave her for a 20-something woman he met in his new job a few months later.
9198
His injury problems added to the sense of loss brought by the transfer of Suarez to Barcelona.
nevertheless, failure to make the top four will bring about new problems.
9199
'Unfortunately, the officer in the case was off sick and the report was not processed within the allocated time frame for prosecution.'
9200
Sebastien Pocognoli has risked the wrath of his manager Tony Pulis, after publicly stating his confusion at losing his place in the West Brom team.
9201
Just as she must have been proud of his career in football and the way he rebuilt it after a badly broken leg.
It’s important not to take the game lightly.
9202
'Removing this as a threat is extraordinary,' he said.
About 200 NFL retirees or their families have rejected the settlement and plan to sue the league individually.
9203
Amid their chaotic shooting, transit cop Richard Donohue was critically wounded.
It also states that the two shootouts and the car incident created 'dangerous crossfire situations'
9204
'Con man': Justin Jackson, right, has been accused of pretending to be a host of celebrity-linked characters in order to score freebies and jobs.
9205
Threat:
Hay Castle was built in the late 12th century by the powerful Norman Lord William de Braose and has been added to through the ages.
9206
John Sims, who had Burkitt's Lymphoma died on Saturday, with his new wife Lindsey Sims by his side.
Patients with the cancer experience a swelling in the lymph nodes.
9207
The thief then climbs into the drivers seat during the theft, which took place in the early hours of Sunday morning .
9208
An Australian goanna has been filmed swallowing a whole rabbit in under one minute.
The grisly footage shows the ravenous reptile battling to swallow its ill-fated prey .
9209
Kelsey, who graduates in May, says that after spending 'countless hours' browsing magazines for body trends, she combined '126 digitally manipulated photos that create the illusion that I am molding my body like modeling clay.'
9210
The silver coin will be minted with the one penny's Royal Shield design and the new effigy of the Queen, which was unveiled in March.
9211
Users can spend received money through the service in stores or withdraw cash from ATMs with the Google Wallet Card, as well as transfer the funds directly to their bank account.
9212
'I'd just rather be out shooting'
When I'm looking for a picture, it's not always what I'm seeing but what I'm feeling when I'm out in nature,' he said .
9213
In Amalfi we caught the local bus up to Ravello - once a favourite place with the Hollywood elite - to enjoy the stunning views along the coast, and then sauntered back down the footpath through lemon trees and sweet-smelling shade until we were back in Amalfi.
9214
The boxes were transported to the morgue.
Chief Assistant Prosecutor Seth Levy argued that Loretta Burroughs murdered her husband, Danny Burroughs, for money.
9215
And more so, Williams claims that Chokal-Ingam's experiment 'is insulting to what black people endure in this country, both institutionally and culturally'.
9216
Even more so in the case of this striking tree spotted in southern China.
Remarkable: The web is so flimsy that the entire tree sways in the wind .
9217
Arsenal are in formidable form this season and are currently in the midst of an eight-game winning streak but Seaman warns his former side that they shouldn't underestimate Reading.
9218
Buddies boss Teale hit back, saying: 'It's maybe a bit firm but it's an excellent surface.
'So this game is important and Partick Thistle is one of the best teams at the moment.
9219
A woman at a game in Chicago who snagged a foul ball in her full cup of beer in the ninth inning on Saturday .
The ball is now sitting in my apartment.'
9220
Benjamin died as a result of hyperthermia due to environmental exposure.
His wife and two daughters moved to Colorado following Benjamin's death and Seitz is now free to join them.
9221
Once the greatest golfer in the world, but years of bad form and injury have taken their toll on Tiger Woods and on Tuesday he looked grateful just to have the support and adoration of his two young children and longterm girlfriend Lindsey Vonn.
9222
Pele was asked whether he'd prefer Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo, and the Brazil legend chose Messi .
'Cristiano is a great player, more forward, more of a scorer.
9223
A 73-year-old suspect has now been detained in England.
The investigation into the shooting was re-opened in March this year.
9224
George Bailey is to join Sussex for the second half of their NatWest T20 Blast campaign this summer.
9225
Cricket flour is said to be a good source of protein and other nutrients.
Pictured right are inventors Stefán Atli Thoroddsen (left) and Búi Bjarmar Aðalsteinsson .
9226
Paul Potts performs on Britain's Got Talent in June 2007 .
One Chance (2013), starring James Corden as Paul Potts and Alexandra Roach as Julie-Ann Cooper .
9227
Among the victims to speak to Nottinghamshire Police in connection with alleged abuse is Golden Globe and Bafta winner, Samantha Morton.
9228
She became fluent in the local language, Tagalog, in the hope of becoming a star.
Natalia Moon (pictured) learned Filipino language Tagalog to score a role on sitcom Ismol Family .
9229
Lawyers for Russia argued that it was necessary to deport him to ensure immigration laws were obeyed.
It added that he had been deported to Russian-speaking Belarus.
9230
Pablo Osvaldo has urged Italian legends Andrea Pirlo and Francisco Totti to move continents and join him at Argentinian giants Boca Juniors.
9231
Eighteen
Sakir was a shopaholic and I bought him shoes, clothes and a new phone.
'Sakir came from a poor family.
The holiday was so romantic.
9232
She said the 100th anniversary of Gallipoli was a significant event for all Australians.
For Turkey, travellers should have a high degree of caution because of the threat of terrorist attack.
9233
To explore the idea, they used tiny microphones to record the sounds inside rabbits' ears as they played sounds at different locations.
9234
However, FIFA did something similar during a 2006 World Cup qualifier.
Referee Graham Poll shows a yellow card to Croatia's Josip Simunic during a 2006 World Cup match .
9235
Aston Villa are chasing Cordoba striker Florin Andone.
The powerful winger's contract is up in June and a number of clubs including West Brom are interested .
9236
The boy was allegedly slapped repeatedly during religious lessons at the mosque between May 1 and June 13 last year.
9237
Here, Sportsmail picks Mourinho's best ever XI.
Sergio Ramos has been a star at the back for Real Madrid for 10 years .
Striker - Didier Drogba .
9238
I promise I won’t get injured.”
Marino believes Sanchez is looking strong and capable of scoring 35 goals  in any league he's played in .
9239
But it's clear that Gabriel has struggled with the split, keeping her Facebook status as ‘in a relationship’ and keeping a large photo of the couple kissing on her home page wall.
9240
Anti-piracy company Irdeto said that episodes from Game of Thrones's first four seasons were illegally downloaded more than seven million times between February and April 2015.
9241
Today Chris McGovern, chairman of the Campaign for Real Education, said the idea would lead to a 'dumbing down of standards'.
9242
The father-of-one, whose wife Kate is expecting their second child  in June, was dismissed by doctors five times in two months - despite reporting on one visit that he was coughing up blood.
9243
Worry not if your only microwave-friendly bowl has lost its lid.
Add a dab of shoe polish to a paper filter and use it to shine your shoes .
9244
Malky Mackay became the 17th Championship manager to be sacked this season earlier in April .
P Tisdale (Exeter)                               8/10 .
9245
'I am the coach of extraordinary players.
It is believed that Muller-Wohlfahrt and his team resigned as they felt they were blamed for the first-leg defeat, though neither the doctor, the club or Guardiola have said as much in public.
9246
The four workers waged their hate-filled campaign throughout 2013.
Three of the workers regularly referred to one resident as a prostitute and told another she was fugly .
9247
Van Gaal believes Manchester City's players may struggle to get to grips with being in fourth spot .
Booked: Delph .
Swansea vs Man City - May 17 .
9248
In the women's competition, Carla Suarez Navarro lost the first set 6-0 but hit back to see off Venus Williams 0-6 6-1 7-5 and reach the semi-finals.
9249
The hungry fox races across the grass towards the large Canada goose...
‘It jumped into the air to make a grab, with jaws open and teeth displayed.
9250
Surgery would mean another busy summer for Oxlade-Chamberlain as he'd be required to complete a rehabilitation programme before pre-season.
9251
Elderfield, who told police that Mr Dobinson had accidentally walked on to the knife during a heated argument, denies murder.
9252
The 35-year-old was stabbed over 14 times before being knocked out with a mental bar after being held captive in her own home.
He then stabbed me in the thumb, I needed over 100 stitches in total.'
9253
There’s even a kind of ‘grand cru’ prosecco, from the steep hills surrounding the town of Cartizze.
With ripe pear fruits and a touch of apple blossom, it’s brilliant value.
9254
It can also help increase both sperm quality and count, the latter according to a study published in the medical journal Fertility and Sterility.
9255
Gerrard’s time at Liverpool will now end in anti-climax.
12 .
18 .
On the touchline in the second half, Rodgers was unable to change things.
9256
Andy Carroll is stepping up his return to fitness following knee surgery in Dubai ahead of next season.
West Ham's No 9 told the club's website: 'I'm feeling alright.
9257
Brian Cummings QC, prosecuting, told jurors that the Crown Prosecution Service believes he did so to 'test the water'.
9258
Sterling has confirmed that he rejected an offer of £100,000-a-week to stay at Liverpool .
Sterling's stand-off with Liverpool has been a theme of the club's season so far.
9259
'He told me it's a nice city and advised me on where you can live and the nice places to go.
Simon Mignolet has been advising his compatriot about life at the club and in Liverpool .
9260
'Do you want to come to Australia to learn some proper English?' the teenager said in the video.
An attendant is heard telling the young man to 'get off' at the next stop.
9261
Emily Ratajkowski's made it clear that she has one hell of a figure, so you better believe this hot new model on the rise is going to flaunt it!
Assali Rake Mini Dress (now on sale for $192!) at Revolve .
9262
Kevin Pietersen has announced plans to begin his season with Surrey against Oxford MCCU in The Parks.
9263
Jeff Novitzky, who was also involved in the investigations into Barry Bonds, Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin, will spearhead the development of the UFC's new drug testing programme.
9264
Elsewhere, Genoa lost 2-1 at Palermo and Torino drew 1-1 at Sassuolo, hindering their chances of qualifying for Europe.
9265
'We lodged the papers on Thursday.
Miss Wasteney challenges the findings of the employment tribunal, saying her human rights have come 'under attack'
9266
The pair first teamed up for Burberry's spring/summer 2015 campaign, in which they rocked a range of the popular brand's colourful coats and dresses .
9267
Now, with an expanding team - and an exploding online following - Epidemia's goal of $15,000 has nearly been reached, meaning the line is just on the cusp of going into production.
9268
In 2011, two students were hurt when they plummeted from the roof of the Alpha Delta house, reported Valley News.
9269
Research found that gaming boosts the ability to learn a number of tasks more accurately, and possibly puts gamers in an 'expert category' of problem solving.
9270
Waheed was deported by the Turkish authorities and flown back to Britain on a plane packed with holidaymakers on April 14.
9271
He left the group in 1974 because he was 'overwhelmed by life on the road', the Cartersville Patch reported.
Three other band members were previously killed in a plane crash in 1977.
9272
Midfielder Saul Niguez, returning from injury, nodded a second in the 39th before Cordoba had a couple of decent efforts in the second half but could not avoid slipping to a 10th successive defeat.
9273
The 17-year-old New Zealander has had at least one birdie in all 187 of her rounds in 49 career events on the tour.
'Lucky thing that I birdied 18.'
9274
Yevhen Shakhov broke the deadlock in the final 10 minutes with a left-footed drive that took a slight deflection .
Booked: Rotan, Kankava .
9275
A video demonstrating the technology revealed Bioprint can also be used to add multiple users to a single device.
9276
According to WKBW, one passenger said the plane 'nosedived' and crew told fliers that there was a loss of cabin pressure, but that turned out not to be true.
9277
Rolstron was found in a field by a police helicopter whilst Devaney was found by police dogs hiding in a gazebo and in possession of one of the mobiles.
9278
Ms Li said: ‘I nearly fainted.
He also issued a general warning about dogs - saying attacks in China are more common in spring and summer.
9279
After the incident, the 24-year-old said to her: 'Oh my God, you have to forgive me, you will hate me one day.'
He described her as a 'bright and ambitious girl'.
9280
Robert Kennedy Jr has apologized for describing the number of children injured by vaccines as 'a holocaust'.
On Monday, following a storm of criticism, he publicly retracted his statement.
9281
It's what we grew up on,' he said.
Protesters (like the ones seen here on March 28) have been upset over Indiana passing a new law, which critics said allows businesses the ability to refuse service to gay customers on religious grounds.
9282
A Labour councillor’s son who was caught trying to cross the border into Syria with four young children is believed to be a member of an extremist organisation David Cameron tried to ban.
9283
Lauren's parents believe she left their home in North Ridgeville around 4am, and first noticed she was missing when they woke up to have Easter breakfast and she was gone.
9284
Leicester have announced a move for Super Rugby lock Mike Fitzgerald.
The 28-year-old New Zealander has helped the Waikato-based Chiefs win two Super Rugby titles.
9285
I can't breath!' he screams.
When NYPD officers showed up, they took custody of the aggressor and the four tourists went on their way to Les Misérables.
9286
Keepers at the zoo have also built the joey a home where she can dig burrows and forage for her own food.
‘She’s really learning how to be a wombat,' zoo keeper Evelyn says .
9287
Thousands of people have since taken to social media to rave about Ashley's actions.
She said: 'Patrons can pre-pay a meal for a person in need.
9288
But she was left shocked when the man later got in touch with her,  calling himself her 'future hubby' and asking about his 'in laws'.
9289
Chinese number one Hao-tong Li had earlier carded a flawless 65 to set the clubhouse target on seven under, a total matched by England's Tom Lewis and former US PGA champion YE Yang, who both shot 66.
9290
Suarez revealed that during a visit to his future club, he sneaked into the Nou Camp with his wife Sofia for a photo opportunity.
I'm going to go in'.
9291
This involves spreading my fingers across the centre of my forehead, then pulling my fingertips down while pushing my brows up so I look very confused.
9292
He wrote: 'I tend to perform better when markets are volatile and this week alone I would have envisaged making at least £1 million.'
9293
Shauna swapped her daily treats of chips and pizza for a high protein diet of chicken and fish .
Shauna is now more confident than ever and is even prepared to take Lacey swimming .
9294
Having been a pro player for 13 years and earned 42 Scotland caps, Hall admits it will be a strange feeling hanging up his boots for good at the end of the current campaign.
9295
Chelsea captain John Terry is adamant that there is still work to be done if they are to clinch the Premier League title.
'We are still getting results and that's the mark of champions.'
9296
He went on: 'Check my twitter, the conversation will grown [sic] and questions will be asked.
He faces up to two years in jail over the blackmail charges .
9297
'It was a piece of wood with splinters coming off it.
Iceland  said they are carrying out a thorough investigation into how the timber shard came to be in the curry .
9298
But now the BBC has been accused of dumbing down the Proms – by holding an Ibiza-style dance party.
Pictured right is cartoonist Pugh's take on the 'dumbing down' of the Proms .
9299
The slain sisters’ third sibling, Hailee Mesiterling, said from the stand that Andrew Steele was in love with his sister-in-law .
9300
Miss Jacobs had Transient Global Amnesia, a form of memory loss brought on by stress.
Before her attack, Miss Jacobs, of Manchester, was worrying about a homeopathy business she ran.
9301
Carlos Toro, seen in 1982, is facing deportation from the United States after working for the DEA for 27 years .
'Many times over, I atoned.
9302
He believes premature release 'could arguably prejudice a formal technical assessment' and Mr Andersson is not the only aviation expert to speculate on the plane being 'hacked'.
9303
Saracens hardly sent shockwaves across the continent after dispatching Racing in an arm wrestle decided by Bosch's nerveless penalty, but McCall insists the result is all that matters.
9304
Defender Tommie Hoban has called the club's promotion an 'unbelievable achievement' Watford had won at Brighton and were travelling back home on the team coach when news filtered through on that they had won promotion three hours afterwards.
9305
The quaint cottage is a comfortable stay and can be hired for the small sum of €200 (£145) for two nights .
9306
Felicity Waterford was waiting for her daughter at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music when she saw John Howard's car had a flat tyre.
9307
'The second goal is why Haris played today.
I explained to him that we had to bring him off and it was nothing to do with his performance, it was just because of the change of shape.
9308
He said: 'A year ago I was planning my funeral at that church, and now I'm planning our wedding there.
'You have given me the best years of my life.
9309
Jose Mourinho could one day make a shock return to manage Real Madrid even after his high-profile and acrimonious exit, according to Real defender Alvaro Arbeloa.
'Professionally he has a great team and is doing well.'
9310
The critters were filmed at Indiana's Indianapolis Zoo after getting a makeshift backboard and hoop installed in their pen.
Sporting activities:
9311
The 23-year-old suffered in hospital for 13 days from her injuries before she died.
Her death sparked angry protests in India and internationally about misogyny in the country.
9312
Michelle Heale (above) breaks down during her trial for murder in the death of 14-month-old Mason Hess on Tuesday as she reenacts the moments before his neck allegedly snapped .
9313
'When you moved out of home, I thought, 'thank the Lord, I won't be missing you',' Mr Buccheri sang.
'Hey my new sister thanks for making him so happy all the time,' he sang.
9314
Now scientists believe they have found evidence of what may lie behind 'the gift of the gab'.
The findings may also help to explain why some people dry up completely when asked to speak.
9315
Group A contains hosts Bulgaria, Croatia, Spain and Austria, while Group B has the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Belgium and Germany.
9316
Tennessee last executed a prisoner in 2009.
Utah last month reinstated the firing squad as a backup method if it can't obtain lethal injection drugs.
9317
Falkirk (4-3-3):MacDonald; Duffie, McCracken, Grant, Leahy; Taiwo, Vaulks, Sibbald, Smith; (Bia Bi 45), Morgan (Muirhead 77), Alston .
.
9318
All meals are provided.
Chocolate cake has been revealed to be a favourite of the Monarch who is currently looking for a sous chef .
9319
'Hooliganism':
The Malaya Zemlya memorial, completed in 1982, commemorates a battle to free Novorossiysk from German occupation in 1943.
9320
‘We're testing new features in this space that let you and your friends stay up to date on all the things that make up your day.’
9321
Slager then drops the Taser next to the dead body in the presence of Habersham.
According to police reports, Slager fired the stun gun, but it did not stop Scott.
9322
The family of Bernadette (left) and Sarah (right) have said they are 'absolutely devastated' at their loss .
Pictured, officers outside a property in Worcester Road .
9323
Just wanted to clarify that.'
Right after the incident took place, McHenry took her Twitter account to rant about how Adanced Towing is 'corrupt'.
9324
Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin company has completed a successful spaceflight test in West Texas (shown).
It was unmanned, but will ultimately take six people into space .
9325
'I am torn up,' she told the magazine.
She had a mirror that allowed you to see yourself under different lighting, which Manning found fascinating.
9326
Mimi was picked to star in the TV advert after Phil shared the video with the Pets at Home Facebook group .
'I never thought when I filmed the video that it would end up on TV.'
9327
Her family member, she said, was based inside the van, and she fears he will be made a scapegoat for something he 'didn't do'.
9328
outdoors, the company told U.S. lawmakers that the prototype . drone had already become obsolete while the company waited more . than six months for the agency's permission.
9329
Klopp has already been linked with a number of leading clubs around Europe, including City and Real Madrid .
Bundesliga 2010-11, 2011-12 .
9330
It was the third international goal for Agudelo and first since March 2011.
The US has beaten Mexico by 2-0 in four straight home World Cup qualifiers, all in Columbus, Ohio.
9331
Mayweather was photographed taking the scales for the WBC’s mandatory weight check 30 days before a world title fight.
Pacquiao is also understood to be comfortably within the 30-day stipulation.
9332
Icy terror:
The 7.8-magnitude quake struck on Saturday and a 6.7-magnitude aftershock hit yesterday, leaving survivors afraid to return home.
9333
She said that traking the drug used to make her feel 'like superwoman' Ms Collins has now been clean for more than nine months after finding free help with the Department of Veterans Affairs, which she was directed to by pure chance after being arrested.
9334
More recently charcoal, freekah, spiralizing and bone broth have emerged as the latest craze in healthy eating.
No.
Is it a healthy craze?
9335
Star guests: The likes of Lady Gaga (right) and Beyonce (left) are fans of the Andaz Liverpool Street .
The food quality is equally impressive.
9336
A video has emerged of the former world No 1, with headphones in each ear, bopping away while he honed his wedge game on the practice ground on Monday.
9337
'Having said that, the result on Sunday will just be down to the performance on the day.
It is not about the relationship between the managers.'
Fabregas left for Barcelona in 2011.
9338
All the drama that was whipped up over the stuff in January wasn’t helpful to the club, but we as coaches and the manager just have to try and focus on our job here.
9339
At current crude prices, this could be worth £3.7trillion.
If flow tests showed oil could be extracted, the production process could begin within 18 months, he added.
9340
Hardin told Greenville Online that the dog will help Sapphyre make friends and will also help her to explain her disability to other kids.
9341
Threat:
But some privacy activists questioned the broad language in the order, saying it could have unforeseen impacts.
9342
Heartbroken owner Tony Tancock believes only an expert could have targetted the dozen show-quality guinea pigs stolen leaving more ordinary rodents behind.
9343
A schoolgirl was left stranded at a busy airport after easyJet refused to let her board its plane - because she was carrying two pieces of hand luggage (file picture)
9344
The Toffees have made a new striker their priority for the summer to bolster the  attacking options at Roberto Martinez's disposal.
9345
Detectives later discovered that Tahir was charged with two similar offences in 2003 only to be cleared after the prosecution file failed to arrive in court in time.
9346
Islamist militants posing as policemen abducted Mr Rodwell from his home in the Philippines by gunpoint on December 5, 2011.
He was released in March 2013 when his family managed to raise a ransom .
9347
Liverpool's stars (left-to-right) Michael Robinson, Graeme Souness, David Hodgson, Phil Neal, Mark Lawrenson, Sammy Lee and Craig Johnston celebrate with the European Cup after beating Roma in 1984 .
9348
There is also the fact that Wrexham approached Gateshead manager Gary Mills this week to discuss their vacancy.
Twenty players left after the budget was cut.
9349
To her surprise she found it easier to stick to than the calorie controlled plans which had failed in the past.
She lost 9lbs in the first week.
9350
A University of Sydney spokeswoman said 'substantially more than the reported five students' are currently under investigation after the university was provided with 40 unnamed assignments.
9351
Simonsen had not bet on any games relating to his club's competitions and was given a one-match ban with another suspended when an SFA-convened judicial panel convened on February 12.
9352
The attention forced judges to prioritise the case and the lawyer's association in Saket reportedly refused to defend the perpetrators.
9353
It had been reported that Neto had a verbal agreement to join Serie A champions Juventus at the end of the season but his agent has revealed no decision about his future has been made yet.
9354
'The matter was taken very seriously,' Dr Seward said.
The Geelong College Council has since announced it has begun searching for a new Principal.
9355
Retiring AP McCoy has confirmed he will ride to the final race at Sandown on Saturday if he can secure mounts.
Only 500 tickets remain for sale.
9356
'Mitchell brings to the table some all-round cover,' said Hesson whose side will play five 50 over games and one T20 match against England.
9357
Incredible images show handcuffed members from the notorious Barrio 18 gang being marched onto buses taking them from Izalco jail to San Francisco Gotera in an effort to curb gang violence .
9358
The Spaniard was in a title fight with Michael Schumacher who, in the background, quickly caught the struggling Renault.
Hide and seek Formula One style?
9359
I bet their families are far from perfect.'
He was dismissed after the sex clip of his tryst at Mossley AFC in Tameside was shared on social media and has now begged for his 25-year-old girlfriend Bryony Hibbert's forgiveness .
9360
Adebamiro's story about what happened changed several times and she suggested that her husband killed himself as well as mentioned a power outage that never happened.
9361
Rose wasn’t the only Englishman to prosper, as in-form Paul Casey shot 69.
‘I played with Paul last week and he strikes me as a man with something to prove,’ said Rose.
9362
Many experts have long believed that it was the use of stone tools by early species of Homo like Homo habilis and Homo erectus that helped set them apart from other human-like species.
9363
Don McLean is selling the original manuscript and lyrics  to pop anthem American Pie, including a 'lost verse', which included a line about the music being 'reborn'.
9364
A small chocolate bunny contains 2212 kjs and would take an hour and ten minutes of swimming to work off .
9365
All the roads are shut.’
At 2.30pm, the critical care medical team arrived in an SUV.
Georgia was finally removed seven hours after the procedure began.
9366
But after being shown evidence she was killed, he had now changed his story.
Jackson is accused of murdering his wife at his home in Alvor, in the Algarve (pictured).
9367
Federer was playing his first tournament since losing to Novak Djokovic in the Indian Wells final last month and the second seed's rustiness showed as he was beaten 6-4 7-6 (7/5).
9368
Wonderful to finally have met you, to see the man who found me first,' Barton said to Buelna, according to CBS Los Angeles.
9369
A 15-year-old boy has been cautioned after posting a racist tweet aimed at Arsenal striker Danny Welbeck.
9370
Most students in Monday's random sample chose not to talk about Mrs. Clinton.
When she wants something done she probably does it herself.'
9371
Users will only see information that people have already shared on Facebook, and not everyone links their mobile number to their account so this could be the app's downfall.
9372
But the Spaniard, who won 14 titles in his four seasons at Barcelona, thrived under adverse conditions with his team playing arguably their best game this season, even without injured Arjen Robben, Franck Ribery, Bastian Schweinsteiger and David Alaba.
9373
Last year, California teenager Connor Eckhardt died after smoking one hit of synthetic marijuana.
They later created a Facebook page to warn others about the perils of synthetic marijuana.
9374
The Magpies declined to comment, but Aarons' loss would be yet another blow to head coach John Carver, who has seen his side defeated in each of its last five Barclays Premier League games amid a suspension and injury crisis which shows few signs of abating.
9375
This image taken from the  app on an iPhone, in Washington, shows police at the scene on a map on the app .
The post was said to be made in early December.
9376
British celebrities have been advised to include the word 'ad' or 'spon' to show if something is an advert or sponsored.
This tweet said: 'The pitches change.
9377
Brelo fired out of a sense of rage and vengeance after he and his partner became one of the first cars to join what would be a 19-mile chase on city streets and freeways with speeds reaching 100 mph, Bell said.
9378
After confiding in her teacher Lorette Esteve it was decided she could take Holly into the five-minute recorded French oral test.
9379
He believes colour grading is paramount.'
A man installs a mural of the sea in the middle of the desert, creating an idyllic beach view .
9380
She will also steer through reforms designed to make it easier for customers to move to another bank, by allowing customers to take their account number with them.
9381
For Stuart McCall, the memories of May 11, 1985 will never fade.
A 12-year-old Martin Fletcher is comforted by his mother Susan in 1985 after the Bradford Fire disaster .
9382
The actress, who starred in  O Lucky Man! in 1973 - when she was in her thirties - and The Long Good Friday in 1980, went on to explain that the ten years after the sexual revolution but before feminism was 'perilous' for women.
9383
This time, he plans to approach from the northern, Tibetan side, together with the Heroes Project's founder Tim Wayne Medvetz and an eight-member team.
9384
Gunasekera‘s lawyer John Munro said his client could not remember anything of what happened at all.
Since the incident, Mr Gunasekera admitted he was an alcoholic and needed help.
9385
Cazorla is in his third season with the Gunners but enjoys life in north London and is happy to stay there .
'I'm focused on Arsenal, where I am very happy.
9386
He was at Augusta National for the 20th time — 'I think that's right,' he said, 'because I've got at least 18 shirts — and said he has a camera around his neck at least once a week.
9387
After retiring from the NBA, the 19-time All Star and six-time MVP starred in Game of Death with Bruce Lee .
UCLA Health issued a statement at the request of Abdul-Jabbar.
9388
A brewery has seen a spike in sales following a bizarre Twitter spat with teetotal politician George Galloway.
He said: 'We are planning to bring out a Galloway soon.
9389
She kept her fans updated by posting dozens of photos of her and her friends at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California.
Good times:
Party scene:
9390
Then along came Eddie Howe.
Bournemouth is a good place to bring up a family and he has also made it a good place to play.
Eddie Howe is the reason for that.
9391
Carver, in fairness, is caught in the middle of what is a toxic relationship between supporters and the club's hierarchy.
I'm not going to do that and I have still got my enthusiasm.
9392
Early figures obtained by the Daily Mail show that in East Sussex, 15 per cent did not get their first choice – up from 14 per cent last year.
9393
However, officers gave Kelm a sobriety test, which indicated her alcohol content was three times the legal limit.
She has since been released on $1,000 bail.
9394
Gerrard could feature for Liverpool in the FA Cup final with Liverpool at Wembley on May 30 .
Whilst I wasn't wanting it to happen, now we're out of the cup I certainly hope it does.'
9395
Biden slapped his former US Senate colleagues, saying it was 'about time' they confirmed Lynch .
Her brother Leonzo Lynch is the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Charlotte.
9396
It comes after the reality star inspired more than 3,000 people to sign the bone marrow donation register in one week, when he issued an appeal for help to save his mother's life.
9397
President Obama, seen here April 23 addressing the death of the two captives, reportedly has granted CIA a waiver exempting the agency from providing proof of imminent threat to the US ahead of planned drone strikes .
9398
The comments found their target but the 26-year-old is a laid-back character and was unfazed by the storm he had created.
‘That’s the way I see it.
9399
Cleveland officer Michael Brelo is facing charges after two unarmed suspects were killed in
Officer Sabolik said he later learned it was Brelo.
9400
The best sleep quality worldwide occurs on a Wednesday night.
Other insights from this data include that the best sleep quality worldwide occurs on a Wednesday night.
9401
The vessel is more than 355 feet long and has been specially designed to cope with the stress of tipping over by 90 degrees .
9402
Matsukoroid was developed at a cost of around £55,931 by the Japanese labs that already produced an autonomous experimental news-reader.
9403
Obama grinned and replied, 'Osman thinks I've been talking too long.'
As for his post-presidency career, the president seemed to suggest he might just return to his old job as a community organizer.
9404
The conservation organisation's ships collected and delivered to authorities over 72 kilometres of illegal gillnet that it alleges was abandoned by Thunder (pictured) in December .
9405
She set up her own business, the WEST brewery, in 2006 .
‘I had to say No.
It’s something people are proud of and want to show off to visitors.
9406
The Niva (pictured) is a highly capable, ruftytufty 4x4 from Russia — for a fraction of the price of a new Land Rover and it is also available in a compact van format (£10,590, excluding VAT and road tax) GOOD .
9407
IMF chief economist Olivier Blanchard warned that debt levels are ‘very high’ in many European countries and said ‘it would be desirable to decrease them’.
9408
Earlier in the competition the Third Round ties were split over five days due to New Years Day Premier League matches and to accommodate televised games.
Everyone else has played, so we won't be playing games.
9409
Subs not used: Moore, Adeyemi, O'Keefe, Kennedy.
Skuse had a chance to shoot from distance and the Portman Road crowd were urging him on, but the midfielder passed to Murphy instead and the striker slotted in.
9410
They practise ‘static apnoea’ once or twice a week, as well as ‘dynamic apnoea’ - holding breath while swimming - once in a while for fun, and also general fitness training.
9411
'It is the worst thing you could ever imagine happening,' she said.
During non-business hours or on weekends, calls should be directed to 1-877-LAPD-24-7 (877-527-3247).
9412
For example, they have visited the Remington Art Museum in Ogdensburg New York (pictured), where there is a long history of ghost stories .
9413
Dugheru said afterwards the incident had added to her motivation and gleefully declared that it was ‘nothing personal’.
9414
All MPs' expenses receipts will have to be published after a court threw out a bid to keep them private.
9415
The incident, which happened in Bhiwandi, in Mumbai (stock image) is being investigated by police .
Police have said they are working to identify and catch the accused.
9416
Both horses were removed on Wednesday after complaints from neighbours and a warning from the RSPCA.
'We understand the current situation is that the horses have now been moved.'
9417
Elsewhere in Spain the attention is focused on the Madrid derby in this week's Champions League quarter-finals.
9418
His 57th-minute pass, which sailed over the heads of the players in both teams towards the target of Alvaro Morata, led to the controversial moment when Czech referee Pavel Kralovec awarded a penalty.
9419
There are no guarantees that Charlie, who is a season ticket holder at Luton with his dad, will go on to make the grade when he eventually makes a decision.
9420
Two 49-year-old women and a 23-year-old man  were removed from the plane just before it left Bristol for Faro around 7pm yesterday (Thursday).
9421
-Ricky Bernard Coggins, Tallahassee, Florida.
-David Navejar, Brooksville, Florida.
Conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute 139.8 grams of cocaine base.
9422
Rangers will attempt to bounce back from the first loss of McCall’s tenure when they host Raith on Sunday.
Nothing wrong with a bit of passion as long as it’s channelled in the right way.’
9423
Over the next three minutes, they were then asked to hit a key every time they thought of the songs - while chewing gum, not chewing gum or tapping their finger .
9424
Inter Milan loanee Lukas Podolski says he wants to play for parent club Arsenal next season .
‘When I go back (to Arsenal) I think I have the chance to play there,’ he told Sportsmail.
9425
The climber was just six years old when his mother died while descending K2, which is regarded as more difficult to reach than the summit of Mount Everest, with dozens dying during attempts to reach the top.
9426
Dr Mark Porter, head of the British Medical Association, the doctors’ union, said that whoever wins the election will inevitably be tempted to bring in charges .
9427
Peter Brandt, who has lived by the water for 40 years, asked if they were 'accomplished kayakers' because the water was very rough.
9428
A waitress has revealed how the New Zealand Prime Minister had repeatedly given her unwanted attention while she was working at a cafe in Auckland frequented by him and his wife Bronagh (pictured together)
9429
'Just gonna go to the market for a pig's head': Keyes at a Mexican butcher shop (left) and camping on the beach (right) in Hawaii .
9430
It even revealed it will allow smart devices such as doors and home appliances to use the platform.
Mr Zuckerberg said it would give users 'more tools for expression'.
9431
He was also wanted for questioning over Mr Brennan's murder when he was detained.
Police swooped on Scott last year after he flew from Holland to a remote airstrip in Norfolk.
9432
He said Mr Cameron's call for 'English votes for English laws' in the aftermath of last year's Scottish independence referendum vote had 'shattered the unionist alliance against the break-up of the United Kingdom'.
9433
The semi-official Iranian news agency Fars also reported that Iran took control of the MV Maersk Tigris for 'trespassing' on its territorial waters.
9434
Chelsea quartet celebrated the Songkran festival with the traditional activity of throwing water at each other .
9435
In his last 77 Palace games he only scored three.
Harry Kane's progress goes to show you don’t always have to go out and spend huge money to solve issues .
9436
Curtin gave birth in January.
Curtin was charged after coming home and finding her boyfriend's ex-girlfriend shooting heroin in her bathroom .
9437
They ruled she was a ‘resilient person’ who had suffered ‘disgraceful’ harassment and victimisation by colleagues in the London branch of Russian-based Sberbank CIB.
9438
Speaking about The Chameleon, he said: 'I worked about four days to design the motif bigger and paint it with colours.
'I covered the hair with natural clay to make the heads look bald.
9439
Between 2009 and 2014 a total of 617 youngsters aged under ten in the region either committed, of were suspected of committing, a crime.
9440
Huminski was on his way to Southampton, where his sister lives, French prosecutors confirmed tonight.
‘He then called the police, who found the body of the girl in the woods.
9441
She said: 'Mike and I have a great sex life.
She added she can't wait to be the fourth Mrs Holpin, and said: 'People might think I am mad but I really don't care.
9442
The city looks like a scene out of a Hollywood disaster movie .
Just 50 minutes later the bright red sky had faded and the sky had returned to normal.
9443
'I might get 50 supporters to come down, have an open forum and through (club chairman) Andrew Jenkins they can have half an hour with the players.
9444
With David Luiz and Thiago Motta both out with injuries, Serge Aurier returned to the PSG defence while Adrien Rabiot was given a starting role in midfield.
9445
The judge said both sisters were unsuitable to control her affairs ‘because of the intense acrimony between them’.
9446
LaPierre declared that nobody 'should be forced to face evil with bare hands' as he called  Congress to permit handguns licence-carriers to carry their weapon in every state.
9447
She told of how her son longed to go on Britain's Got Talent, and how he had made a recording of an Ed Sheeran song .
He was a real show-off.
9448
Mee raped her, before forcing her to perform a sex act on him, it was said.
She only managed 10 sit ups and Mee told her to attend a training session the following Thursday.
9449
Another comment said that Ms Scott and Mr Woolley would be 'forever in love'.
A Facebook page 'Remembering our Stephanie' has been set up, dedicated to the memory of Ms Scott.
9450
Mike Ashley will come calling soon...'
The 36-year-old is a boyhood Newcastle fan and is doing well with the non-league side .
9451
NSA leaker Edward Snowden is still taking refuge outside the US, nearly two years after exposing the depth of the agency's eavesdropping program .
9452
It was the only time in three National runs for Mon Mome that Coleman had not ridden the gelding.
Phil Smith, the chief handicapper, says he is the best handicapped horse in the race.
9453
Battilana also convinced Weinstein to meet him a restaurant and the NYPD were also there to watch that meeting, according to the newspaper.
9454
Dermatologistsis developed it for people with highly sensitive skin so it is often favoured by ezcema and psoriasis sufferers.
9455
Last week, aid workers reported that a nine-year-old girl was pregnant after suffering horrific sexual abuse at the hands of ISIS militants in northern Iraq.
9456
Killed: Jessica Edgeington, seen here at a swooping course,  died Wednesday afternoon after flying out of Skydive DeLand in Florida on Wednesday .
9457
Mardas caused consternation by saying Greece was about €350-400m short of funds needed this month to pay salaries and pensions that are due at the end of the month.
9458
The talented midfielder's performances have led to a summer move to Tottenham .
Contribution to League football: Major Frank Buckley .
9459
Winds as powerful as a category two cyclones have lashed the Hunter region of New South Wales, with the SES is receiving 200 calls an hour as wild weather continues to hit large parts of the state .
9460
Sharon Edwards, 55, was last seen between 10pm and 11pm on Saturday March 14 in Grafton, NSW .
He then went back to Lawrence and said he didn't see Ms Edwards there, Eli said.
9461
Michael Phelps has won 22 Olympic medals, 18 golds, but was banned from swimming in September .
Phelps has been training in Baltimore and performed will in an exhibition race last month .
9462
It's shocking.
Prosecutor Shawn Jensvold said the records are not in the state's control and can't be turned over to the defense.
9463
Newport County have sacked Chris Zebroski after the striker was jailed for four years and four months for robbery, attempted robbery and assault.
9464
'It's people’s lives she’s meddling with and she gave us so much hope.’
The university student has undergone 15 brain surgeries - lasting seven hours for each operation .
9465
Orellana was shown a red card for throwing the chunk of grass in the direction of Busquets .
Orellana will miss his side's next game against Granada on Wednesday night.
9466
Palmer, 52, has been giving safety announcements and other messages in verse since last year when Northern Rail encouraged their guards to give their addresses a festive flavour.
9467
'It's fantastic to finally be in the house after all this time,' he said.
Gatiss told police he was so desperate for drug money he would have 'targeted anyone'.
9468
Palmer is unable to play alongside Gary Player and Jack Nicklaus in the curtain-raising event on Wednesday afternoon as he recovers from a dislocated shoulder, although the 85-year-old will still act as honorary starter on Thursday.
9469
He explained infants are 'at a high risk of dying if they get infected' and that the death rate from whooping cough in infants under 6 months of age is about 1 per cent.
9470
Schock said he was in the breakfast room around 9 a.m. when the guest staying in the room next to the one where the shooting occurred reported hearing gunshots.
9471
Louis van Gaal has propelled United back into the top four, despite an up-and-down season .
Moyes endured a fractious relationship with several stars at United, including Van Persie .
9472
Saint-Andre will remain in charge for the World Cup in England from September 18 to October 31.
9473
Of last year's other Grand Slam champions, Li Na has retired while Maria Sharapova has yet to build on the strong start that she had in Australia.
9474
The group, who are allegedly being funded by Saudi Arabia, show of a fleet of armoured tanks (pictured) during the graduation ceremony for its recruits .
9475
Parking attendant Roberto Cinti was driving the Ferrari, pictured, when he mistook the throttle for the brake .
He blamed the car's semi-automatic transmission for bamboozling him.
9476
'Look how much your sisters have been violated.
A man walks past a broken window from a police raid in Melbourne designed to foil the purported Anzac Day plot .
9477
Gazprom had also pressured Poland and Bulgaria into . accepting unfavourable terms over gas pipeline control and . construction, the commissioner said.
9478
Goalkeeper David de Gea (left), winger Angel di Maria (centre) and Radamel Falcao were in training action .
'I don’t think Shaw is fit enough to play,' Van Gaal said.
9479
A device has been created that can scan entire planes for contraband, bombs and weapons.
It can scan planes from small private jets to medium-sized commercial airplanes.
9480
Denver Police Department were unable to file criminal charges because no victims had been identified.
TSA has removed the two officers from the agency.
9481
I wish all at the school every good fortune in the future.'
She added: 'Please be assured that for the school it is 'business as usual' and that our total focus is on our students, their learning and progress.
9482
According to forensics, the woman seems to have had multiple children.
The victim was found in a wooded area east of Clyde Morris Boulevard in Volusia County in April 1990 .
9483
Her father Lubomir Kukuca, who is seriously ill with cancer, admitted his daughter kept in touch with them while she was on the run.
9484
Pablo Zabaleta was furious that Fellaini was only given a yellow card at Old Trafford last season when he felt he was the victim of a blatant elbow from the United man.
9485
They are selling it for £185,000 to help pay for Craig Jr's prep school fees .
‘After bills and the mortgage have been paid, I’m often left with just £50 a week for food.
9486
Lazio's players celebrate after eliminating Napoli to advance to the final of the Coppa Italia .
'You can't say that we haven't done enough this season, the team has created a lot.
9487
Five thousand local residents signed a petition protesting against the failure of prosecutors to pursue a murder charge against her.
Tragic:
9488
Dr Oliva’s group say these images not only reveal vision problems, but can also highlight how the brain processes information.
9489
What are the benefits?
As many of you will know, cranberries have been used for years as an aid against urinary tract infections.
PUMPKIN SEEDS .
9490
This claims come in the wake of a television appearance last week, just hours before Clinton announced her candidacy, where de Blasio refused to back her.
9491
Within a matter of minutes, the storm had blocked out the sun, creating chaos on the city streets .
The sandstorm in Egypt gave the country a Martian look .
9492
But the striking structures and hiking trails winding through this unearthly landscape, make this a popular attraction for tourists visiting western America.
9493
The former Philadelphia District Attorney Abraham allegedly suffered a momentary drop in blood pressure.
She sat out the rest of the debate .
9494
'The number of times that they got blocks in was high and for us not to break them down in that period was our undoing so I am disappointed with the draw.
9495
During a talk last month, Nasa said humanity will encounter extra-terrestrials within a decade.
It will examine the habitability of solar system rocky planets through time.
9496
Evans said Moynihan had seen the video.
There were reports of gunfire near where Wilson lived and he was tracked down using the GPS coordinates of a bracelet he had to wear while on bail for unrelated charges, according to the Boston Globe.
9497
Strauss is one of the weak links in the commentary box - Sir Ian Botham is the other - and looks far more suited to be a Hugh Morris-style leader of England cricket if that’s what the ECB decide they’re looking for.
9498
In his tweets, the SBS football journalist condemned Anzac day as an 'imperialist invasion.'
Twitter users labelled McIntyre's comments an 'Un-australian anti Anzac disgrace!'
9499
'I just had to defend myself,' she told MY 9 NJ.
The girls said they saw multiple police cars at the park as they left.
9500
David Cameron has promised to protect the health, schools and foreign aid budgets again if he wins next month's election.
9501
The stats from a brilliant day one made fascinating reading.
NICKLAUS OR ‘99’?
As for Tiger Woods, he’ll surely launch his own iced lolly soon.
9502
Mexico - July 2014 .
Another day, another holiday: Kim spent time in Mexico with friends Sarah Gomes and Kirsten Noel Gipson .
Utah – Jan 2015 .
9503
He defended Ryanair’s decision not to employ workers in France year-round, saying it is due to the ‘administrative madness’ of labour laws and taxation.
9504
'We have been particularly impressed with their new establishments in Bath, Portishead and Lulworth and believe they can bring the expertise we require for this important building and facility in Queen Mother Square.
9505
I'd love to play alongside Cristiano Ronaldo.
'I love watching both of them.'
Real Madrid forward Ronaldo (right) in action against Malaga's Samuel Garcia at the Bernabeu on Saturday .
9506
But we have to live with knowing that our money was spent on allowing Cameron's daughter to study in New York while my daughter can't.
9507
Watson, who finished 38th at Augusta National on Sunday as the defence of his Masters crown finished in disappointing fashion, was struggling on one over after 13 holes on Thursday - having started on the back nine - but three successive birdies got him back under par.
9508
Presley, who died in 1977 at the age of 42, first wore the suit in public on March 28, 1957 during a performance at the International Amphitheatre in Chicago.
9509
He was unarmed .
A preliminary hearing to determine if there is enough evidence to send the case to trial is scheduled for Monday, CBS News
9510
According to Mullen, at 12:17 pm, a SWAT team from the sheriff's office entered the home and found the individual deceased in the residence .
9511
However, record companies have been quick to upload their music on to these platforms to prop up the collapse in CD sales after music moved online.
9512
This included Jake Casey, Ewen McDonald and Stephen Bebbington.
Mr Livingston died of a suspected drug overdose, but it is not clear if he wanted to take his own life .
9513
Dr. Robert Ballard’s Exploration Vessel E/V are on their most ambitious expedition season yet, exploring sites ranging from the Gulf of Mexico to British Columbia through late September.
9514
Scroll down to see Negredo practice his rabonas .
Negredo didn't celebrate after scoring against Levante on Monday, sparking speculation about his future .
9515
Manchester United have been linked with Cavani but the striker hasn't impressed this season .
The Uruguayan hasn't scored as many goals as he should have done in the French league .
9516
Members of the Shiite Huthi militia in Yemen's second larget city of Taez .
Supporters of Yemen's former president Ali Abdullah Saleh shout slogans during a rally in Sanaa .
9517
Forensic experts sift through debris in the area where the fire started on May 11, 1985 .
And the club has only recently wanted to fully remember the victims publicly.
9518
Jonny Howson touched a free-kick short to Johnson who, off a fast bowler’s run-up, leathered a rocket shot that David Stockdale had to turn around the post.
9519
Fenerbahce TV maintained the bus was attacked by an assailant with a shotgun.
Five round marks can be seen on the windscreen of the Fenerbahce team bus after the attack .
9520
In Essex and Kent, crime victims are waiting up to a third longer for a response.
However, the Home Office dismisses the criticism claiming that crime levels are continuing to fall.
9521
After a user reported the picture to Henrico Police, Holmes, who lives in Chesterfield, Virginia, was arrested.
It is not the first time a suspect has been arrested due to a Facebook post.
9522
After joining the force 20 years ago, Barlow said he quickly learned that officers worked with the church's security unit, known as 'The God Squad'.
9523
It said 110 children - 3.8 per cent - were not offered any of their first three preferences, compared with 1.8 per cent last year.
9524
Four time zones to the west, in Omsk, three bears have been taken in after their mother was shot by a hunter.
A very happy baby bear gets fed dinner at Sadgorod Zoo .
9525
Divers also report seeing the fur seals attacking other species of shark and rays.
Natural Resources Wales said that growing seal numbers may mean there is increasing competition for food.
9526
'He is looking forward to next season and I think he will be ready for the team when he comes in,' revealed Mignolet in an interview with Liverpool's TV station.
9527
He said his son was allegedly involved in an accident with another car, in which one of the vehicles became slightly damaged.
9528
And research shows that if your tip is seventh down the list or the jockey's racing colours are Royal blue, emerald green or red, then you're more likely to return to the bookies and collect a few bob.
9529
She found a pea-sized lump, which hospital tests revealed was cancerous.
However, they said the treatment would probably leave her unable to have more children.
9530
Carlos Tevez opened the scoring for Juventus after 17 minutes as they beat Lazio on Saturday .
Tevez jumps for joy after firing Juventus ahead with his 26th goal of the season .
9531
A woman pleads with protestors to stop breaking restaurant windows after a rally for Freddie Gray, Saturday, April 25, 2015, in Baltimore .
9532
He also insisted that the mirror was 'old news' and reiterated that he won't remove it.
Tamale talks into her smartphone camera, as she uncovers the two-way mirror .
9533
A recent study by Human Rights watch has found that ISIS fighters have been kidnapping women and children as young as eight, forcing them to marry and convert to Islam and raping them repeatedly.
9534
AP McCoy and Mr Mole will have six rivals in the Grade One Celebration Chase at Sandown on Saturday .
Mr Mole will be McCoy’s last ride in a Grade One race.
9535
The vacuum  is powerful enough so suck up spilt breakfast cereal, dust and hair, while its integrated bag dispenser knows when you need to buy new bags .
9536
Statom had a personal connection to the area that has been ravaged with gang violence, and told Smith 'it used to be a very nice place to live'.
9537
Sophie Falkiner says she has been cinching in her waist with girdles long before the Kardashians .
The thicker, the better,' Falkiner has previously told Sydney Morning Herald.
9538
Mr Gable is already working on a new related project documenting corn production and after that, he plans to do a similar investigation of wheat.
9539
A fan snapped this photo with Stoll on Thursday in California .
The team said: 'We are aware of police reports out of Clark County, Nevada regarding Jarret Stoll.
9540
He wrote of how he pressed the accelerator 'flat to the floor' before seeing the speedometer reach 180mph as he entered the village of Sulby, which is part of the TT race and has a speed limit of 40mph.
9541
The FA attempted to defuse the situation by releasing a statement the following day apologising for the behaviour of ‘a section of the England support’.
9542
Murdered:
Accused:
Police have charged Steven Vander Briel, 30, with first-degree murder and abduction in the death of Grace Rebecca Mann .
9543
The group also wanted incest to be legalised.
A Hacked Off spokesman said that the meeting was ‘open to and free for all members of the public to attend’.
9544
My friend.
The New York Post also wrote a column last month comparing the real-life doctor to the fictional doctor on Tina Fey's hit comedy.
9545
According to The Fashion Spot, white models were chosen as cover stars nearly five times as often as non-white women (pictured)
9546
New Zealand police are appealing to the public to help identify a man who robbed a Christchurch dairy wearing a 'distinctive' cartoon mask.
9547
Miss Coyne's parents were first told their daughter had a heart defect before she was born, but it was only later scans that revealed the true extent of the rare condition.
9548
We want to see all the actual station data.’
He said the panel’s work would be ‘transparent’, with all data made available though a public website.
9549
Defence sources said the submarine's weapons and critical elements of its nuclear reactor had been removed before the fire broke out .
9550
Mrs Clinton has the chance to become the first female president in American history, which would make former President Clinton as the 'First Man'
9551
‘The story seemed too incredible to believe.
The subject is still one that people find hard to believe or do not want to believe for various reasons.
9552
They found that in mature orchid flowers, the expression pattern suggests two protein complexes, called the 'L' complex and the 'SP' complex, compete to promote the formation of the lip and standard petals.
9553
I accept the Oyston family’s main objective is and always has been, for the financial stability and success for and of BFC.’
9554
Weinstein reportedly cooperated with police throughout their investigation.
Weinstein and Chapman were last photographed together at this year's Academy Awards (above)
9555
The find suggests that the village of Saltford, where it was found, was on a major trade route long before Roman times.
It’s a very interesting find.
9556
'After the Dignitas experience I realised that I had to do whatever I did on my own that I can't even talk to someone in case they are implicated,' Ms Forde said.
9557
An investigation revealed that Elizondo was targeted by the kidnappers because her father was a well-known wealthy business man in the area, according to The Inquisitr.
She is still facing kidnapping charges, among others.
9558
Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, one of the country's most senior counter terrorism officers, has warned there has been a high rise in the number of Syria-related investigations in the West Midlands .
9559
His lawyer Gwyn Lewis told Blackpool Magistrates' Court that Hendry's current income was 'meagre' and he asked for extra time for his client to pay fines and costs until he can start taking his offshore pension in mid May.
9560
Wilson has scored one Premier League goal this season, against Queens Park Rangers .
Wilson praised Radamel Falcao's predatory instincts insisting he is always in the right place .
9561
‘If we can crack this, we can get a very large flux of electrons coming out, then we can build a biological solar panel,’ he told MailOnline.
9562
Following the Husky’s lead, the Spring Spaniel begins howling itself and before long the two dogs are musically bouncing off one another.
.
9563
Mr Panteleenko, a professional circus trainer, eventually trained Stephan to become a movie star - and the animal has since appeared in a host of Russian blockbusters including, Tsar .
9564
Taken in Tokyo, the images show clean-up crews entering rubbish-strewn buildings where lonely victims spent their final days .
Grim:
Dirty:
9565
A spokesman for Mr Clegg said the Lib Dems were confident of winning Sheffield Hallam.
Tom Watson, Ed Miliband's former election coordinator, said: 'This seat is winnable for Labour.
9566
Cook plays a shot during a training session at the Grenada National Stadium in St Georges on Monday .
Of course, when you're in form you don't think about these things.
9567
The SNP wants to end the Tory-Lib Dem austerity programme and delay plans to balance Britain's books by spending an extra £140billion over the lifetime of the next parliament.
9568
At least 10,000 supporters stayed away from St James' Park for the club's last home game against Spurs .
9569
However some insist even with the discount of up to £102,000 in London they will still be unable to buy their homes.
The sell-off could net £4.5billion a year.
9570
Taekwondo fighter Aaron Cook's application to switch allegiances to Moldova has been approved .
His first outing is likely to be at the World Championships in Russia next month.
9571
We have seven games left and we have to see what happens.'
After the match, Liverpool boss Brendan Rodgers conceded defeat in his quest for the top four .
9572
Local media suggest this is a way for villages to save money on the transportation of gas .
This reckless behaviour has been reported on as early as May 2011 in Zibo city in Shandong.
9573
Citroen's Aircross model (above) has protective alloy bumps front and side .
Citroen claims a special boost function will help it accelerate from rest to 62mph in 4.5 seconds.
9574
The 22-year-old student then heard a 'slow scream' and tried to intervene but was struck by the sex offender's knife.
'We are so proud of her achievements.
9575
Denied bail: Mr Baggaley was charged with assaulting a police officer, resisting police and escaping custody .
9576
Alastair Cook could be seen in a long conversation with Test Match Special’s Jonathan Agnew.
Quite why this should annoy Cook is hard to understand.
9577
The Hearts v Rangers match will be televised live on Sky Sports.
The clubs themselves have made their feelings known to the league.
9578
The event was broadcast live on state television in Iraq.
Al-Douri was deemed the most high-profile official of Saddam's Ba'ath Party to evade capture after the invasion.
9579
And in 2012, MailOnline reported on the story of Kayleigh Terry, 21, who believed she was pregnant with her first child after gaining weight.
9580
Queensland resident Roxy Walsh took to her Facebook account after recovering the gold jewellery at the Finns Beach Club in Bali on Tuesday.
9581
Miss Bekele was abducted so she could be pushed into a forced marriage.
Last year, Miss Bekele won an injunction banning the film from being shown in Ethiopia.
9582
Wayne Rooney was one, Alan Shearer another.
Some believe he will be the next name jotted on that prestigious list, others think he will be found out.
9583
A court heard Keeley launched a chair at his ex-girlfriend before he started attacking her and barristers had to step in to break the pair up.
9584
Tom has had some poor luck injury-wise.
I think he will come back and we will be talking about Tom Croft playing how Tom Croft can play.
9585
Hennessy winner and a National winner – it sounds good doesn’t it!'
Veteran jockey McCoy looks dejected after earning a fifth-place finish in his last ever Grand National .
9586
'Because of recent news reports about extremist groups, such as ISIS, that identify themselves with Islam, a small number of parents have expressed concerns about the trip and the teaching of Islam in school.
9587
Draped in a black cloth, Vermeer spent hours peering into the box-like interior of a camera obscura, an ancestor of the photographic camera.
9588
She is pictured showing off her pregnancy bump in a photo released in 1998.
She fell pregnant with their first daughter before she was arrested and with their second after she was released .
9589
'All Emirates aircraft are equipped with onboard instrumentation so that crew are alerted in a timely manner of all surrounding traffic.
9590
'Kate Temple and her sister were refused service.
He told her: 'That is the lowest sentence I can pass given my public duty.'
9591
’ Deila admitted he had hit an all-time low after the 3-2 extra-time defeat to John Hughes’ side last Sunday.
‘Two set-pieces have done us in.
9592
The mother of two died on April 8 after reportedly getting into trouble in the water near Julian Rocks off the coast of Byron Bay in NSW .
9593
“The brick kiln was pre-heated for 48 hours,” said Mr Hopur, who is the fourth generation of a family of grill masters from Bachu County, according to Tianshan Network.
9594
'In 2007 I became pregnant with my boyfriend at the time,' she says in the video, which appears on the website for the center's Draw the Line campaign.
9595
However, Mr Miliband, who is filmed attempting to make scrambled eggs, claims controversy about his kitchen ‘makes me laugh’.
9596
.
A look inside one of the gyms at Manchester City's training complex .
Aided by Wilcox's wise head, they appear to be thriving under it.
9597
In other games, Indiana got injured star Paul George back just in time, beating Miami 112-89 to remain in contention for the play-offs.
9598
Trooper Abraham Martinez is seen leaping into the air to kick Steven Gaydos after he fled from authorities in Houston in 2012 as he drove in a suspended license .
9599
If diagnosed, they face a severe threat of ovarian tumours.
Women with a significant family history of breast cancer may have an increased risk of getting the disease.
9600
She died last year aged 85 having been married to her second husband Charles Black until his death in 2005.
Shirley Temple FOIA FBI File uploaded by DailyMail.com .
9601
The study states: ‘A significant increase in neurodevelopmental and behavioural disorders in children exposed to HG in utero was demonstrated which suggests HG may be linked to life-long effects on the exposed fetus.
9602
Pictured: Stock image of Pakistani brides and grooms at a mass wedding .
Pakistani women are often killed by men who feel their honour has been offended in some way.
9603
Just when we thought we knew Victoria Beckham's sense of style better than our own, she goes and surprises us.
Topshop distressed skinny jeans .
9604
The picture showing the line of gang members and their guard dog surrendering to police has since gone viral in Brazil.
9605
Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi was allowed to leave Adiala Prison in Rawalpindi late on Thursday.
A senior JuD official said: 'Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi has been released from jail.
9606
Figures released by the Electoral Commission revealed that Labour received £1.9million in the week to April 5, with 84 per cent coming from just three trade unions.
9607
Quirk's death follows that of Joshua Rose, a 17-year-old student at the school, who died suddenly on October 1 for reasons which were not explained in depth.
9608
What’s wrong with cash?
The cheapest solution is to talk a lot, so the loose flesh keeps moving and it either tightens up or it’s not so obvious.
9609
He explained he made the change to compensate for the absence of leading scorer Romelu Lukaku, who is still recovering from a hamstring injury.
9610
She revealed that a smaller unit like a Nornäs coffee table won't put too many demands on your relationship, but it's a different story for a large wall unit like the $1,199 Liatorp unit, which Ramani has dubbed 'The Divorcemaker'.
9611
Whichever theory turns out to be correct though, both are in agreement that the formation of the moon remains a confusing mystery that is yet to be fully solved.
9612
Real haven't found their rhythm yet while Almeria are just letting them pass from side to side.
Three shots already for the hosts, with Ronaldo having the latest two.
9613
He was then dragged to the ground as he tried to grab the windshield wipers, and the car drove off .
I hope to hell something comes good out of it,' he old NewsNet5.
9614
Victor Wanyama took to social media on Thursday in a bid to dismiss rumours he was set to quit Southampton for Arsenal.
9615
Troopers say 49-year-old Eligah Christian was taken into custody Friday after mashing the bulky vehicle into several patrol cars.
High speed chase:
9616
But Woodward told Monaco vice-president Vadim Vasilyev last Sunday that they would make a decision on the right to sign him permanently at the end of the season.
9617
The event includes the world’s only two-day Diamond League meeting from July 24-25 with the Sainsbury’s IPC Athletics Grand Prix Final taking place on July 26.
9618
The document alleged that when police raided Rudd's home they found 0.71 grams (0.025 ounces) of methamphetamine and 130 grams (4.5 ounces) of cannabis.
9619
England internationals Oxlade-Chamberlain and Gibbs also gave Tyga a No 52 Arsenal shirt with the word 'Kingin', a hashtag he usually writes on Twitter, printed on the back.
9620
These will allow the U.S. and its partner negotiators to know almost instantly should Iran try to evade the oversight, Moniz said during an appearance on CBS' 'Face The Nation.
9621
We know he was happy that day.
'Lots of the nursing and medical teams involved in Corey's care came in over the Easter break to share this special occasion with them all.'
9622
'And that is big issue facing City this summer -- United, Chelsea and Arsenal are now all capable of taking them on in the transfer market and, if a player has a straight choice between the four clubs, City will come fourth every time.'
9623
#Paris #StadeDejerine #agirpourlesautres (act for others)
The defeat all but ends Sakho and Liverpool's hopes of competing in the Champions League again next year .
9624
Only people who attended the event can see the album, and users can only delete the photos they took themselves.
9625
Males build nests under rocks during mating season (pictured), which runs from May to July and sing to attract female visitors.
9626
A basket vendor balances an array of products on the back of this small motorised bike in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam .
9627
Liverpool playmaker Philippe Coutinho is mobbed by his team-mates after opening the scoring .
Gerrard leaves the pitch following his side's 2-1 FA Cup semi-final defeat by Villa .
9628
The Mail on Sunday reported last month how Mr Bramley’s father made an emotional appeal for the 150 dead not to be forgotten and demanded airlines be more ‘transparent’.
9629
'As a result of the petition, Immaculata High School acknowledged the problem and decided to review their social media policy.
9630
A mother and ten ducklings waddled into an office in the West Midlands and drank from the water bowl .
They were just wandering around the office corridors.
9631
The advert opens in a traditional Italian restaurant where the young Italian boy appears bored by the pizzas .
9632
Fredricksen is said to have taken an American school bus and driven it to youngsters' homes .
He discovered where the real firefighters were working by listening to a police scanner.
9633
A duffel bag containing human remains was found outside a biotechnology building in Cambridge on Saturday morning, and one person was later arrested in connection with the grisly discovery, authorities said.
9634
Social media was flooded with complaints.
One fan who identified herself as Libby, told Deadspin that the whole scene was a horror show.
9635
The relation between the female driver and the four children are not yet known but the woman is currently under police guard in hospital .
9636
The video concludes with the dog – who obviously loves snow – chasing after some more skiers as they make their way down another section of mountain.
9637
Annabel said she saw a fairy-like guardian angel as she gained consciousness, and it stayed with her while she was rescued, shining a light so she could see .
9638
It must be said though that website is neither affiliated with Ibrahimovic nor Google.
'We didn't ask his permission, but we hope he sees it as an amusing experience,' he said.
9639
BBC commentator Guy Mowbray's commentary notes for Liverpool's league match against Newcastle .
Mowbray has worked for the BBC since 2004 .
9640
The ex-teacher came under investigation two years ago after a former student at Centennial High School came forward to say he had sex with Hansen, and she was arrested in June 2013.
Hansen was placed on administrative leave following her arrest while officials tried to determine how many students she had sex with, and she was officially terminated on Friday by the Corona-Norco Unified School District.
9641
However, the firm say that even irrespective of the final results for the test case, the process established in the project can be used to assess other locations that have major congestion and pollution problems caused by excess road usage.
9642
Meanwhile, women who use hair removal creams around their bikini line may find they are more prone to thrush, a common yeast infection that causes itching, irritation and discharge, says Austin Ugwumadu, a consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at St George's Hospital, London.
9643
It details a method of scanning a user's face using the front-facing camera each time the phone is moved into a certain position.
9644
They were simply not fit for purpose.
Jos Buttler appeals for a stumping as England dominated the second day of a farcical match in St Kitts .
9645
When told of this after her arrest, Keaton, 24, said; 'Sh*t happens.'
That car contained the child whose injuries were so severe they later died.
9646
'Etienne came home after 138 days in the NICU needing only vitamins and a little breathing support...and we expect him to grow out of that in the next few months.
9647
Airport staff at the place where Chinese passenger Hu Hsieh caused chaos at the airport after opening the emergency door in his eagerness to get out .
9648
Hazy:
Although the headcam video cuts at the 31-minute mark, it apparently took the fire fighters six hours to get the blaze under control .
9649
She found the change to her body difficult to deal with.
She revealed: 'Going out in my bikini was a little nerve racking.
The water felt amazing.
9650
It warns that bikes will be 'removed or destroyed' if they are left  behind a building previously used by the Greek Orthodox Church.
9651
The battered body of Mack's 62-year-old mother was found 'folded up' in a suitcase that had been loaded into the boot of a waiting taxi at  St Regis Hotel in Bali's seaside Nusa Dua district last August.
9652
His comments come in response to months of speculation that black British actor Idris Elba is in the running to be named as Daniel Craig's successor.
9653
’ Facebook users were quick to ridicule the steakhouse franchise after seeing a picture of the embarrassing incident .
9654
'I have no doubt that this judgment will affect members of the Black and Ethnic Minority community who might be considering joining Wiltshire Police.
9655
'I just wanted to get out of it in case they still thought I was a deer.'
Mr Verschuuren was wearing a dim headlight.
Local police are investigating the incident.
9656
Traditionally, energy gathered during the day is sent back to the grid, but this can prove costly if you need to buy it back - unless you have a smart battery that stores the excess energy in your home.
9657
A Saudi-led coalition is continuing to pound anti-government forces in Yemen .
'I have always supported and still support the Iranian negotiating team,' Khamenei said.
9658
However, figures from crime data analysts, UK Crime Stats, showed that in Nottingham there was a rise in shoplifting offences from 288 last February to 324 this February.
9659
Holder also directed a review of the security clearances of the DEA employees who attended the parties to ensure that they continue to qualify for the clearances.
9660
‘At the same time I think having people being able to own shares in a healthy, successful British bank is the sort of country we should be building.’
9661
The ex-Real Madrid man couldn't stop his side from slumping to a 1-0 home defeat to DC United last week as Luis Silva struck the only goal of the game at the Orlando Citrus Bowl.
9662
They had three biological children who showed no signs of abuse, Shumofsky said.
Because what Carolyn Jackson was doing was acting in good faith in her role as parent.'
9663
'They're ancient faults,' Ellsworth said.
A group of experts met last year in Oklahoma to pinpoint seismic hotspots around the country caused by induced quakes.
9664
'I've recently been doing a lot of travel back to where my family's from in Cambodia and I just recently opened up a factory over there,' he told News Corp ahead of his show.
9665
Pietersen, now a county team-mate, was going through a difficult patch against left-arm spinners, but Ansari insists the pair have not spoken about the dismissal.
9666
His mother had fled the scene, it is alleged.
Above, neighbor Leslie Brooks said Tilson could have reacted differently .
An investigation is ongoing.
9667
Other papers include an essay written by George III on the relationship between the monarch and parliament and notes from Queen Charlotte to her children's governess.
9668
Hala'ufia found hooker Britton who dived under the posts, with replacement Will Robinson adding the conversion.
Burns missed the conversion.
9669
Julian said: 'For me, it is the Jewel in the United Arab Emirates' crown.
'As long as I live in Abu Dhabi, I will always visit the Grand Mosque and continue to photograph it.'
9670
Prosecutors say the driver with a concealed carry permit shot a 22-year-old man who opened fire on a group of pedestrians in Logan Square.
The driver is not facing charges .
9671
Ms Schake's attempts could also be hindered by some voters' views that the politician and her husband Bill - parents to daughter Chelsea - are detached from the issues of 'normal' Americans.
9672
ESO's Muse instrument on the Very Large Telescope has now helped illustrate the ongoing evaporation of the Pillars of Creation in unprecedented detail, revealing their orientation.
9673
In addition to tissue preservation, the chemical is also used in pesticides.
Poison:
He said the girl's mother is now with her in California.
9674
Labour said the figures were based on the latest official NHS data.
Ambulance call out times are also under growing pressure, Labour said.
9675
Prince Harry's first tour in Afghanistan was cut short after an imposed media blackout on his presence there was breached.
9676
Trendy:
Michelle Mone set up Ultimo underwear business with her husband Michael (right) in 1996, but they split in December 2011 .
2010
2012
9677
Benitez has been linked with a return to England with Manchester City, as Manuel Pellegrini has overseen a feeble attempt at defending their Premier League title, while some Liverpool fans even pine for him to return to Anfield.
9678
Former Liverpool defender Agger (right) has been accused of elbowing Mattias Jorgensen (not pictured)
9679
Both are pictured with Rojo as he enjoyed a meal in Lisbon, the city he used to ply his trade in with Sporting before signing for United last summer.
9680
The Southern Poverty Law Center in February filed a lawsuit against Georgia Department of Corrections officials on behalf of Ashley Diamond, a transgender woman.
9681
The capsule is also buoyant, so if he somehow finds himself in the sea, he will be able to float until he is rescued.
On an iceberg, this might prove vital.
9682
Texas Republican Rep. Louis Gohmert said last year that if the Obama administration doesn't want a border fence between Texas and Mexico, it shouldn't expect one around the White House .
9683
It's capacity is 7,200 and pretty big crowds were there enjoying the sunshine and the football in Friday's semi-finals.
Awaiting his debut in this competition.
9684
The premium running shoes are part of the Aldi's latest 'Specialbuys' running range under the label 'Crane', which will be in stores from 16th April and available while stocks last.
9685
The central portion of the plane hosts a dining room which is attached to a kitchen, allowing the owner to make use of the services of a private chef .
9686
Empire:
Bettina Liano previously went into administration in 2011 but was briefly revived by a deal with the Apparel Group, which turned sour .
9687
A man killed more than 1,000 dogs in Russia  as revenge as he believed the strays were responsible for giving him tuberculosis, a trial heard.
9688
George at Asda has created its 'luxury christening range' just in time for the birth of the royal baby - and say its gowns and rompers allow mothers to buy a traditional christening outfit for a fraction of the price.
9689
Mr Gove said the Tories would not cut benefits for the disabled or pensioners – but refused to rule out cuts to child benefit.
What we are going to do.'
9690
For Kady Marsh, the incident at the Wharf Hotel was just 'unnecessary'.
Kady says they sat down at a table and fed Isla without a sideways glance in their direction.
9691
About 15 to 20 cases of PKS are known to be in Australia, according to the Pallister Killian Syndrome Foundation of Australia .
It's changed my life.
9692
Rose was three over par after four holes but rallied strongly after drawing a line on his scorecard, like you’d draw a line in the sand.
9693
The singer from Ireland even got an opportunity to tee off on one hole while Tiger Woods also played the Par-3 Contest for the first time in 11 years.
9694
Within minutes she had helped deliver her baby sister, Jasmin Elizabeth-Rose, who arrived in the family's front room weighing 7lb 1oz.
9695
It is claimed that the video, obtained by The Sun,  was taken at his home in Southport in the days before a game.
It has been the cause of 17 deaths since 2006.
9696
He was completely inside it!
It came down on him.'
She added: 'I don't know how he managed to get in there.
He was in there for a good half an hour.'
9697
'It raises an alert, I guess,' he said.
During his trial in February, Taylor tried to escape from the courthouse minutes after hearing the guilty verdict.
9698
She said that it was after her stint on Young Divas that she began to spiral out of control, eating herself 'into a mess'.
'Drugs, depression, the lot.
9699
I'm the champion.'
But afterwards the Hall of Fame promoter revealed he will now attempt to drive through a shock deal for an early rematch.
9700
During the Labour leadership race in 2010, Mr Miliband said the 50p rate should stay in place and was 'not just about reducing the deficit, it’s about fairness in our society'.
Today, in an interview with the New Statesman magazine, shadow business secretary Mr Umunna broke ranks to insist that how long to sustain the measure should be a purely economic decision and not a moral one.
9701
However Haley said that some details jarred with Meaghan's version of events.
Her sister believes that Meaghan's alleged stunt was a cry for attention.
9702
Stars such as Kate Bosworth, Camilla Belle, Elisabeth Shue and Mendes have given the tome glowing reviews.
Mendes said: 'It is my bible – I don't leave home without it.'
9703
The spokesman accepted that auditions for The Exorcist Chronicles were held there, but said Ms Gent's movies were 'commercially available horror' films, rather than bondage or porn.
9704
Boston Police Commissioner William Evans said officers conducting a room-by-room search found the gunman dead in an exam room with the weapon.
9705
Police say she grabbed the 16-year-old by the neck and scratched her face before the 21-year-old manager intervened to stop her.
9706
A party source said if the party had a group of MPs numbering 'in the 30s' it could potentially hold the balance of power after May 7 and be able to once again form part of a coalition government.
9707
George was born in London in June 1912 and joined the RAF as a physical education instructor in 1933, where he stayed for 25 years.
9708
In the cartoon, Kaden was portrayed as an angel.
She was not hurt .
She told Fox 13: 'There are no words to describe what has been taken away.
9709
Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer (pictured)  said on Fox News ' 'The O'Reilly Factor' on Monday night that Bowe Bergdahl 'had Afghan contacts and he was actually trying to offer himself up with the Taliban.
9710
Four were killed instantly in the collision.
The 18 Wheeler which caused so much devastation - the vehicle burst into flames because of the speed of the crash, fire fighters said .
9711
Prince Charles is a regular visitor, spending time in the company of the monks in the Simonos Petras monastery, which crouches on top of a rock high above the sea.
9712
Dozens of workers at the factory have been sacked and deported following the strike at the Mauritius factory where police are accused of brutality .
9713
Spieth poses in his green jacket having held his nerve in Sunday's final round in a start-to-finish victory .
'It was very nerve-racking today,' Spieth said.
9714
Prices of Pacquiao-autographed boxing gloves, the best-selling item, have also risen at least 50 per cent, said Yap-Tan, with buyers coming mostly from the United States, and a few from Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
9715
Torpedo Moscow fans broke down barriers and threw chairs, according to Arsenal Tula's website .
'Torpedo can expect to receive serious punishment.
9716
Hughes said it was a political protest.
Before Doug Hughes made headlines by flying his open air helicopter onto the U.S. Capitol grounds, he blogged about his intention to undertake the 'non-violent demonstration.'
9717
The only hope of a reduced sentence was to marry Asadullah, which she did in early 2013.
Gulnaz was found guilty of 'adultery by force' following the brutal attack in 2008.
9718
'She told me it’s a weave and she got it done at an African hair shop.
'Being able to go to bed with perfect hair and wake up with it was a revelation.
9719
This year marks the 40th anniversary of snooker’s most prestigious tournament at the Crucible Theatre, and there is interest from China in hosting the event.
9720
Doctors say they are stunned with how healthy Luke Shambrook appeared, considering he had gone without food or water since Good Friday.
9721
Thatcher joined Cole and Lt. Col. Edward Saylor at the museum less than two years ago for a public 'Final Toast' in which they lifted specially engraved silver goblets for the traditional toast of their reunions to those who have gone.
9722
During the video, the noise made by the phone is responded to with chirps from the ducklings .
'They returned about an hour later and rescued the two remaining baby ducks.'
9723
The photo was shared with her 25,000 followers, which included an abusive commenter known as 'fatalsplash' who was quick to judge and accused Alexis of being a 'gold digger.'
9724
But Mr Mansour warned about people diving into reading the Koran 'unaccompanied' and jumping to conclusions on its highly poetic text.
9725
Aston Villa boss Martin O'Neill shows off his Manager of the Month award for April 2007 .
Jose Mourinho has won the prize on three occasions - including here in March 2007 .
9726
'It took the focus off the fact that Dad wasn’t here on my wedding day,' Mrs Beringer told Daily Mail Australia.
He was still in good spirits even though he couldn’t talk.'
9727
Hackett had been adamant he had not even launched a comeback after entering the 2015 national titles.
'One thing I am good at is listening to people around me.
9728
Nedved expressed his relief that Juventus avoided Barcelona in the Champions League quarter-finals .
Nedved believes that Lionel Messi is currently in the greatest form of his career .
9729
The teenager says her motivation for creating the video was to counteract stereotypes held by people over certain disabilities.
9730
James Anderson was one of their victims.
Anderson died after being beaten and run over.
Both women read letters of apology to Anderson's bereaved family, writes the Clarion-Ledger.
9731
More than just a pretty face: The lecturer has now achieved his PHD and is hoping to earn enough money from modelling to set up his own engineering consultancy .
9732
Darcy Atkinson, two, died of brain injuries in December 2012.
Dr Wilkins described the injuries the toddler sustained as 'tram-line marks', and said he had only ever seen them inflicted on a child, News Corp reported.
9733
It was this relationship that ultimately led Moore to make his escape from prison, after they were both sent to HMP Wandsworth, it was said.
9734
Most tweets containing the offensive term came from several parts of Texas, which surprisingly are not even close to the Mexican-American border.
9735
Jackson was hit by the front wheels of the vehicle backing up.
Amanda told WAVE she rushed home and held her sons lifeless and bloodied body for hours.
9736
Natalie (left in 2014) was not diagnosed with a mental health problem until she was 22 - before then she had a regular childhood (right).
9737
The news that British sales to the rest of the world are surging ahead of those to Europe is a major blow to former Prime Minister Tony Blair's claim that leaving the EU would damage the economy .
9738
Paris-born Kante is a defensive minded player who has impressed for Caen this season and they are willing to sell for around £5million.
9739
They separated in 1984 and divorced in 1986 and Bobby got together with Stephanie Parlane-Moore, who he married in 1991.
9740
As the goldfish disappears, Kowen realises he will never see Top again and tears start brimming in his eyes .
The video is aptly captioned: 'Boy loses best friend'.
9741
Shortly after her grandfather's comments, Marion Marechal-Le Pen, 25, pictured with Le Pen in 2012, confirmed that she would seek the party’s nomination .
9742
‘I shot him enough times to kill him,’ she said, ‘so that he wouldn't suffer...
‘I was watching him die.
Hubers’ trial is expected to last two weeks.
9743
He added that his actions were in line with procedure.
He says they continued to give CPR until EMS arrived and Scott was pronounced dead.
9744
Despite all of that, Van Gaal has taken United back to where they wanted to be – into the top four.
Even Van Gaal's decision to give Wayne Rooney the captaincy looks inspired.
9745
Sir Bradley Wiggins' participation in the inaugural Tour de Yorkshire has been confirmed.
Sir Bradley Wiggins will be riding for his eponymous team at the
9746
She is still on paid leave, according to the school district's superintendent.
She taught chemistry and physics classes at the school, the Danbury Daily Voice reported.
9747
Leeds United are the subject of a takeover bid from Red Bull, according to owner Massimo Cellino .
'He said Red Bull has made an offer for the club.
9748
But earlier today, the Mail revealed how Malik was pictured waving a flag in support of ISIS at a demonstration in London last year.
9749
But in the end I fitted into a size 16 dress and I felt absolutely amazing that day.'
She has dropped from a size 22 to a size 10/12 .
Lunch: .
9750
Britt McHenry is back to work.
After a few more comments, including telling Michelle she doesn't have a brain, McHenry delivers her biggest sting.
9751
We live in the most expensive country in the world.
The report found that Australian prices are at 112 percent of the US, meaning that we pay $1.12 to every $US 1 .
9752
Letterman carried on with the show which had guests including John Travolta and Amy Schumer, star of her eponymous Comedy Central show, 'Inside Amy Schumer.'
9753
Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany (right) watches the club's Under 18s side take on Chelsea .
9754
During a lively fiesta I paraded one child dressed as an ant and another as a strawberry before bumping into my Spanish bank manager, herself dressed as a plum.
The new arrival needs constant attention.
9755
A parody video that mocks American skiers and plays on stereotypes about US tourists has gone viral on the internet, but not all viewers are finding it amusing.
9756
Strict security rules are in place ahead of the event, with local Italian authorities warning that anyone caught loitering outside the couple's home (above) will face fines of up to 500 euros .
9757
This dark wood style kitchen is just one of two in the two-level property .
He'll be missed: Jon was seen talking to one of his neighbours at the NYC property he just sold .
9758
A grandmother was left feeling 'sick and scared' after she received a chilling ransom demand for her stolen dog.
I just want him home safe.
9759
A member of the Taliban stands at the site of the execution, which took place earlier today .
Children are said to be among the victims.
9760
Everton .
Everton 17/10 .
Southampton 17/10 .
Ronald Koeman’s side have lost just one of their last six Premier League away matches (W4 D1 L1).
9761
Many academics have dismissed his theories as pie in the sky.
He gives interviews to 'spread the word' and has written several anti-ageing books.
9762
After days of silence, the official line on Pietersen’s dismissal is that the ECB wanted to ‘create a culture’ in which captain Alastair Cook had ‘the full support of all players’.
9763
It was the unexpected and tragic death of his older, teenage brother Christopher (pictured right with Nic left), who killed himself amidst his own quieter battle with mental illnesses, which helped put his life back into perspective .
9764
Chris Stead, Editor in Chief, Old Mate Media added: 'Better battery life is a given as Apple improve its tech efficiency.'
9765
She was seen on video eating the food in the cage trap before it was decided on the evening of April 20 to capture her, and the trap was closed on Monday night.
9766
Miss West was 3,500 miles away at Camp Bastion in Afghanistan when she learned her fiance had been killed in front of horrified onlookers near Woolwich Barracks.
9767
Andrew Getty's father Gordon Getty (right) pictured in 1986, a decade before his secret family was revealed .
He died aged 54 in 2011.
9768
In Oregon, there are more velella across beaches than usual, experts say.
But while the creatures, which are also known as 'by-the-wind sailors' or 'purple sails', look strangely beautiful on the beaches, locals have warned admirers that they don't smell as pretty as they look.
The creatures are not harmful to humans but will begin to smell fishy as they start to decompose .
9769
The Baltimore Sun first reported the meeting.
Justice League NYC organized a rally Saturday night at the Western District station where Gray was taken .
9770
Michael Jones, prosecuting, said Rogers had been suffering from paranoid schizophrenia at the time and was 'profoundly mentally ill'.
9771
A five-year-old Palestinian boy pelted the Israeli police with stones as violence erupted during a rally in the northern West Bank .
9772
Davis won nine of the final 11 games of the match and broke Bouchard's serve twice in the final set to pull off the upset.
So it was definitely, just, I don't know, just not good.'
9773
Once it was taken to the vet by a passer-by, doctors found maggots in its mouth while also discovering that the cat had injuries including a broken jaw, broken leg, broken hard palate and bruised lungs .
9774
'It's important that everybody knows his position in the club.
You have to respond, and if you respond you have to know what you respond.'
9775
All the activity was taking place as the Senate begins debate over empowering Congress to review and possibly reject any nuclear pact.
9776
West Ham will move to the Olympic Stadium after next season .
And their first task is to design a commemorative kit for West Ham's final season at the Boleyn Ground, which will have the consultation of supporters.
9777
Varian had plenty of practise of planning such a programme last year when keeping his currently sidelined St Leger winner Kingston Hill away from quick ground.
9778
The world champion will have to negotiate both if he is to make history in Sheffield.
Maflin demonstrated those gifts in demolishing Steve Davis 10-1 in qualifying.
9779
And he will pledge to embrace the EU in a bid to secure reforms.
Labour: No upper limit on net migration.
Labour: No mention of bogus colleges.
9780
In a Sunday Times interview, Mr Farage reiterated his intention to stand down as Ukip leader if he fails to make it to the Commons in May.
9781
They have created a method of heating DNA until its bonds break - identifying minute differences between two twins.
9782
Toronto ended a run of six-straight losses against Charlotte by beating the Hornets 92-74.
Rose started and played for the first time in more than a month since undergoing knee surgery.
9783
But the park is limiting it to just 30 people at a time to ensure they have plenty of room to enjoy views that can be terrifying to those who are afraid of heights.
9784
Tattoo-loving soldiers in the U.S. Army will soon be able to get inked on their arms and legs thanks to changing rules, officials announced Wednesday .
9785
He once described the scene on the field: 'From our broadcast box you can’t see any grass at all, it is simply a carpet of humanity.’
9786
The opening bell is rung at 9.30am, while the closing bell is struck at 4pm.
Villa joined the newly formed MLS outfit this season and has so far scored one goal for the club .
9787
The next morning Miss Garrod, who is originally from Jersey, looked in the mirror and found her eye was swollen.
My vision had been blurred since my eye first itched.'
9788
It is treated with surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy and if diagnosed and treated early the outlook is good.
there are very few treatment options.
9789
Salvina Formosa does weights and sit-to-stand exercises every week to improve her fitness .
The 101-year-old widow now does weights and sit-to-stand exercises several times a week .
9790
'This morning a terrible family tragedy has occurred.
The series developed a loyal following in the US, and was shown by Channel 4 in the UK.
9791
Shisha is a water pipe in which flavoured tobacco is roasted with charcoal.
Sterling was pictured on social media smoking a shisha pipe in a story published over the weekend .
9792
I wanted to go nuts at her.
And of Anne's injunction against coming near Sandra, David says: 'It's the best way – the less we see of her the better.'
9793
Prince Harry arrived in Australia on Monday for his month-long secondment .
He was happy to pull funny faces for the amusement of one little girl while meeting wellwishers .
9794
Alessandra Ambrosio, who found fame as a Victoria's Secret Angel, has been snapped up to front a campaign for online fashion retailer Dafiti, which was shot in São Paulo .
9795
The photographs show dozens of militants sitting on seats in what appears to be a school hall, while chilling black and banners carrying the ISIS logo are seen been waved.
9796
Andrew Flintoff (left) carried the belt during the  IBF Inter-Continental Super Bantam Weight Championship bout between Carl Frampton (right) and Raul Hirales at Nottingham Capital FM Arena in May 2012 .
9797
It leaves England looking old-fashioned and they need to react.
It’s simply wrong to say England are best served by players at English clubs.
9798
The key for him is not to play the drive too early, when the ball is moving around and his balance at the crease is not quite right.
9799
The Lyttle family has previously said they believe the charge against Barry (centre) should be dropped .
Outside court Patrick said he had made 'a fantastic recovery'.
9800
Listeria concerns have led to thousands of Classic Hummus containers being part of a voluntary recall, Sabra Dipping Co. said Monday .
9801
Earlier this year, Lithuania's Gražina Leščinskiene hit local headlines after her son Gabrieliaus was taken into care by Norway's Child Protection Service.
9802
Mr Simpson said there must be a minimum size necessary for supporting intelligent life, based on the range of body sizes of intelligent animals such as apes and humans, found on Earth.
9803
Some years later, White's father was murdered and her mother became gravely ill.
Before the mother's passing, White and Thomas decided to have a baby together.
9804
Last week, Mr Farage defended Ukip's manifesto, which featured only one ethnic-minority person, saying the party had one spokesman who was 'fully black' and another who was 'half black'.
9805
She was the kindest person you could meet.'
Friends and family of the popular university graduate have been paying tribute to her today .
9806
Ten days later, warrants were executed at two addresses in the Mossley area of Greater Manchester and the teenager was arrested.
9807
His wife Lucrecia has made a tearful plea for anyone with information to come forward and speak to the police.
He was our stability, our strength,' she told KTVU.
9808
NHS Choices, the website which advises patients, says: ‘It would be too simplistic to say that depression and related mental health conditions are caused by low serotonin levels, but a rise in serotonin levels can improve symptoms.’
9809
She is no longer with Malatino .
Hollister made complaints to police in Gloversville and they warned Scott and Malatino to cease their aggressive actions.
9810
The Real player denied the claims.
'We are already thinking about Saturday's game against Deportivo, which is really important.'
9811
Melvin's Auto Service .
According to Dover police, 'Jenkins was found in possession of .45-caliber handgun that was stolen from a business in Delaware State Police Troop 9 jurisdiction.
9812
In a white paper published in January, the South Korean defence ministry said the North had already taken its miniaturisation technology to a 'significant' level.
9813
Charlie Austin is yet to receive an international call-up despite scoring 17 Premier League goals for QPR .
9814
However, during his visit to a New Hampshire newspaper's editorial board he insisted his family is 'not wealthy by current standards' when complaining about the complexity of his tax return.
9815
She said the World Championships in August were 'the aim.
Semenya is being guided by new coach Jean Verster after splitting with former Olympic champion Maria Mutola.
9816
Several men linked to ISIS are known to have been in contact with Hizb ut-Tahrir while studying at British universities .
Seedy:
9817
The footage has prompted an investigation into the officers' conduct - and claims he even tried to delete the video, but failed.
Horrific:
9818
The council didn't cancel the fine and both parties involved corresponded a number of times over the coming months.
'It was a £2.20 ticket that I actually bought.
9819
President Barack Obama's spokesman, Josh Earnest, refused to give reporters an update on the status of the meetings or scheduling on Wednesday afternoon, saying he would leave those announcements to negotiators .
9820
She also denied that the Tory party is predominantly made up of women in twin-sets and pearls.
‘There’s personal support and professional support and Theresa May has given both.’
9821
You have to say Tottenham Hotspur is a far better club now than when he found it.
'I look at their results because it is a club I spent good times at.
9822
A woman posted tens of thousands of Tweets supporting ISIS which included pictures of dead bodies and encouraging children to arm themselves with weapons.
9823
Fiddlers perform at Twin Sisters Dance Hall in December.
Leaving for the night: A patron in a cowboy hat is seen leaving the Twin Sisters Dance Hall .
9824
Flower landed a sickening blow on Hohaia in front of 75,000 people at Old Trafford and with the world watching .
St Helens then put out a statement saying they supported me.
9825
Almeria confirmed that if all the necessary paperwork is complete Barjuan will coach Almeria's away match at Barcelona on Wednesday.
9826
In need of treatment: Morgan Geyser, 12, has been remanded on $500,000 for attempted murder charges.
Geyser's attorney's now say she is schizophrenic .
9827
'We've slipped back a bit since then, there are 30 days to go and I think the issues Ukip is campaigning on are back in play.'
9828
'Definitely a roamer,' he posted to the forum after finding a slew of documents on Frederick Biddulph in the National archives.
9829
But he completely convinced me that she just a nutter who knows him, but then a few weeks later, when he was going missing once a week still, I thought things aren't adding up.'
9830
The funds will supplement the money Medicare puts towards the procedure.
To help raise awareness about her husband's need for a kidney, she turned to her son for help.
9831
A survey of 1,000 British companies revealed almost half are less inclined to recruit an obese applicant, fearing 'they're lazy', and 'unable to fulfil their roles as required', because of their weight .
9832
They pay them to entertain their fans.
Ramsey was asked to board the sinking ship and, guess what, it has not been an easy job to refloat it.
9833
Marysia evil bikini at Net A Porter .
Heidi Klum is 41 but has the body of a 25 year old .
Jennifer Lopez, 45, shows off her toned figure on holiday .
9834
Mother Jones added: 'Political forces had effectively banned the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other scientific agencies from funding research on gun-related injury and death.
9835
AC Milan players look dejected during a Serie A match against Sassuolo in January .
Those values are being called into question by fans of both clubs, as they continue to vote with their feet.
9836
Southend Crown Court heard how the conspiracy was uncovered, following a period during which Gridley and colleague Jay Reed were under suspicion.
9837
The party would save cash by scrapping £15 billion of road improvement works.
Instead the railways will be renationalised, a move the Greens claim will save £1 billion a year.
9838
Research carried out by the Trust, Oxfam, the Church of England and other charities last year also found that low pay is only a minor reason for people going to get aide from food banks.
9839
'This vicious verbal assault on migrants and asylum seekers in the UK tabloid press has continued unchallenged under the law for far too long,' he said.
9840
He added that, at across the Care Fertility clinics, 1,000 couples, who had gone on to have a baby, had been given footage of their embryo’s development.
9841
The Lotus Temple in Delhi, India.
The structure is the centre of the Bahai'i faith in Delhi and was designed by an Iranian exile .
9842
She claims the seven-year-old has been left
She said: 'I saw a girl  slap her but the teachers tried to say she was making it up because of her autism.'
9843
So I left on that, and he gave it to me.'
Speaking about the untimely death of James Gandolfini in 2013, Bracco said his passing was devastating and a wake up call.
9844
'I can say the reality is I never go to the church to speak with Him about football.
I try to support people that I don’t even know.
Yes.
9845
They have sent out Lemon Law stickers to hundreds of Australians with 'lemon cars' in order to 'put pressure on the government and show that the movement is gaining momentum'.
9846
It is likely to put further pressure on an investigation which has already been accused of a number of failings.
The burglary was discovered on Tuesday morning.
9847
Football Association chairman Greg Dyke has been handed the backing of five former England managers as he bids to push through radical changes.
9848
Ibrahimovic put pressure on Jeremy Morel to force an own goal just two minutes later, as PSG went ahead for the first time in the game .
9849
Mr Forrest struggled with his weight from a young age and in adulthood fell into unhealthy habits.
Dale is now taking part in a charity boxing match since losing weight .
9850
The Australian Air Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) released its report on Wednesday into the 'wheels up landing' on December 12, 2014 at Jabiru Airport, southeast of Darwin.
9851
'The meal in this photo and other meals served by Portsmouth Public Schools meet nutritional and USDA requirements,' said Gelhoff.
9852
Bell was in brilliant form as he scored his 22nd Test match century on Monday in Antigua .
Root hit 83 off 133 balls as England began to accelerate in a wicket-less afternoon session .
9853
Creating an embryo in the natural way can lead to parenthood obligations, even where a man doesn’t want to become a father.
9854
The 22-year-old winger, who can also play behind the striker, was the subject of enquiries from Tottenham earlier in the year and has also been watched by Chelsea and Valencia.
9855
Al-Khori said the materials were used for cleaning and as fertiliser but in February he pleaded guilty to a breach of the 1883 Explosive Substances Act.
9856
3 -  English players in the tournament - Eoin Morgan, Ravi Bopara and Kevin Pietersen.
Hyderabad's strength is up top with captain Warner and DHAWAN.
9857
The department also said keeping Norsworthy in a men's prison could invite violence, including possible assault and rape.
9858
Manchester United striker Robin van Persie is a target for Serie A sides Juventus and Inter Milan this summer .
9859
A Texas school worker is facing an animal cruelty charge after police say he was caught on tape tossing five puppies over a six-foot fence at the Humane Society on Saturday.
9860
'The only passport check was done at Madrid Airport.
However, the airport said its system 'operated as normal on the night in question.'
9861
The full migration is expected to occur in two to five weeks when the water temperature will drop to 14 degrees .
9862
Stretch marks are something that most women of all shapes, sizes and ages have.
This lady said she shared her picture because she had hated her stretch marks for a long time .
9863
A search of Khan's Birmingham home after his arrest uncovered plans for the 'palace' in the Attock region of Pakistan.
Khan was later released without charge.
9864
Stoke City are challenging West Ham for Sampdoria midfielder Pedro Obiang.
Pedro Obiang (right) has been linked with a move to the Premier League this summer .
9865
‘I am often compared with Marcel Desailly, but he, he made a great career.
But he claims he has no regrets over leaving his native France so early in his career.
9866
'I will get back to being a more aggressive player as I get fitter but aggressive does not mean that I am going to be a dirty player,' he said.
9867
'Not only does Miraval boast A-lister owners, it's a really lovely crisp rose, perfect for summer drinking.'
The 2014 Miraval Rose is available in selected M&S stores now.
9868
At the time she vowed to lose more weight and get her life back on track, saying: ‘I'm sick of being like this - I'm getting my life back.’
9869
The retired special needs teacher said 'in a way' she thinks Annegret is 'selfish' for having more babies at her age - despite leaving motherhood till late in life herself.
9870
Google also today launched a new feature allowing users who have lost their phone to simply Google it.
Google's latest tool can't lock the missing phone, or erase its data.
9871
The group were identified in a secret police intelligence report from 1964 in a four-page document.
Details of the alleged assault were never put on the police computer.
9872
Qatar’s royal family, which owns more of London than the Crown Estate, is also planning their own British palace in the capital.
Deal:
Luxury:
9873
Lapointe is due back in court on May 15.
Lapointe's release was processed by court officials, and he was freed from custody in the afternoon.
9874
Gordon Jack, 47, was taken to hospital when emergency services were called to Dunblane Cathedral, where Murray married long-term girlfriend Kim Sears today.
9875
Bent's form has no doubt caught the attention with new Villa boss Tim Sherwood while at the Rams .
Sherwood has also bemoaned the absence of Bent as his side struggles for goals.
9876
Lightning strikes inside the enormous ash cloud thrown into the air by the Colima volcano (above) in Mexico .
There are now around 300,000 people living in it shadow.
9877
There are moments when I look around at the collective madness and feel as if I’ve become part of a cult, but I have to make a decision: get embarrassed or go with it.
9878
Tushingham pleaded guilty to one charge of assault by beating, which took place in April last year when he kicked his then-partner in the thigh, causing a large bruise and knocking her off her feet at her home in Warrington, Cheshire.
9879
Chicago's Derrick Rose scored all of his 15 points in the second half after dominating in the series opener.
Game three is Thursday at Milwaukee.
9880
I am convinced that I will stay in Valencia because I am very happy here.'
The 21-year-old midfielder insists he is happy to stay with Valencia and ply his trade in La Liga .
9881
Amanda Taylor was apprehended by police later that day after a short chase near Asheville, North Carolina.
She said “Melissa, I had to do this for closure.
9882
Sportsmail understands Clement is aware of Derby's interest; and the Championship club will make formal contact with Real once McClaren's future is settled.
9883
Hannover fired coach Tayfun Korkut on Monday after a run of 13 games without a win left the club close to the Bundesliga's relegation zone.
9884
Food and drink has never been far from the campaign, including pulling pint at the Green Park brasserie in Bath, with Lib Dem candidate Wera Hobhouse looking on .
9885
Xue Feng returned to his family in Houston, Texas, on Friday following his release from Beijing's No. 2 Prison .
The foundation has long advocated on Xue's behalf.
9886
The photos show a shark swimming in the shallow waters, where they are guaranteed a clear path because ‘terrified’ fish move out of their way .
9887
As well as the probation, he was fined $100,000 for leaking classified information to his mistress .
'The problem is not that David Petraeus is getting lenient treatment,' Wizner said.
9888
Schumer later told People that Kardashian thought it was 'really funny'.
Schumer has also been busy promoting her first movie, Trainwreck.
9889
A Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service hearing in Manchester was told a man referred to as Patient A had suffered ‘extensive injuries’ to the right side of his face in an industrial accident.
9890
With little scientific evidence as yet making a strong case for vitamin supplements, he felt their study was all the more interesting because it proved the effectiveness of vitamin E. '
9891
Pointing the finger: But when her father tells her to clean up her mess, she vehemently refuses with a heated - and rather cute - argument ensuing .
9892
But in 2012 the Government pledged to increase both girls’ and boys’ participation in rugby at school as part of a drive to boost competitive sports.
9893
Firebox, creators of the Kim K jelly mould, say 'your dinner guests will think you've Photoshopped the damned thing' (l) while The Licktators say this sweet treat could 'lead to a big boost in the size of the posterior' (r) Clear Marmite .
9894
WhereInRio said the surrounding sea is studded with 365 mountainous and jungle-covered islands with hundreds of sandy beaches .
9895
Ron Ingraham, 67, spent almost two weeks adrift and surviving on raw fish after getting caught in an enormous storm on Thanksgiving.
9896
The trains were bought specifically for the epic scene at $22,000 per carriage.
The train is now covered in grass and weeds after sitting abandoned for more than two decades .
9897
In our case our seat is less than half an inch thick at its thickest.’
Passengers in the 'Meerkat Seat' have a footrest and a personal cabinet instead of a seat pocket .
9898
Schwartz shared many of these notes on Twitter, and soon teachers across the nation started trying out the lesson themselves and posting their own results online .
9899
Former Eurovision contestant Ronnie Carroll (pictured with his second wife June Paul) has died aged 80, just two days after successfully getting on the election ballot paper .
9900
When he attended Arsenal’s visit to Villa Park in September it was his first home match since December 2012.
9901
The 24-year-old's career has been littered with numerous disciplinary issues that has seen his two previous clubs Swindon and Newcastle terminate his contract.
9902
It shows the males sizing each other up before one is forced to retreat following a violent battle for the attention of a female chameleon that isn’t seen in the video.
9903
’ Royal Australian Mint CEO Ross MacDiarmid says a lot of work went into making sure the coin design was appropriate .
9904
Bayern Munich: Neuer; Benatia, Boateng, Dante; Rafinha, Lahm (Thiago 69), Alonso, Schweinsteiger (Rode 58), Bernat; Muller (Gotze 79), Lewandowski .
9905
In happier days Rob posed with his sisters Kim, Kourtney and Khloe at a club in Las Vegas .
'You leave every facility that we take you to,' she is seen telling him on a phone call.
9906
Earlier this week, the PSV chief revealed that the chances of Depay leaving are 'very high'.
If you see what clubs are enquiring about him, they really are the best in Europe.
9907
Meanwhile Tariq Yusuf said: 'People like Jeremy Clarkson and Katie Hopkins are manifestations of the culture of toxic hate that is prevalent in the UK.
9908
Match.com is seeking an outgoing, media-savvy person with a passion for travelling and meeting new people to hop around the globe and go on dates with locals.
9909
Detectives investigating the murder found a series of texts from Chowdhury to her in the weeks leading up to the attack.
9910
Sky Sports pundit Thierry Henry questioned whether Arsenal can win the title with Olivier Giroud in attack .
But can you win the league with him?
9911
A South Florida man who weighs 385 pounds and stands 6-foot-8 is facing an animal cruelty charge after authorities say he bit his mom's lapdog on the face, seriously hurting its eye.
9912
He also said that in addition to writing her obituary she planned the entire funeral so no one else would have to worry about anything after she was gone.
9913
'The first 10 or 15 minutes they were brilliant and played well but after that the team showed character and we came back,' Mata told Sky Sports 1.
9914
A new survey has revealed that women regret their career choices more than men.
'Everyone has regrets in life and, in this case, women admit to this more than men.'
9915
Tessier's hiring is in contrast to the national scouting organizationís ban on openly gay adult members .
The New York councils serve over 46,000 scouts.
9916
Elderflower Fields Festival will be held in the idyllic setting of Pippingford Park for the second year running .
So what can festival goers expect in 2015?
9917
'I only discovered this when I went on a visit to Bletchley Park with my uncle,' says Sharon.
The pool is in a glasshouse, where vines thrive in the heated environment.
9918
England lock Joe Launchbury is hopeful of making his comeback in Wasps’ Premiership clash with Leicester on May 9.
9919
He falls, and bystanders jump back in shock.
The rescuer is behind a pillar .
He jumped off the side as other commuters ran to alert the authorities .
9920
Morriss recalled word getting out a few years ago about a scheduled launch.
SpaceX already has a rocket plant near Waco.
But they have other ideas.'
9921
For a start, no less than 13 out of the 22 players on show at kick-off were English.
United manager Paul McGuinness saw his side claim victory in the 'mini derby'
9922
Booth is a progressive, brilliant, imaginative editor but perhaps such a move would be just a little too controversial for such a traditional vehicle as Wisden.
9923
Their latest disappointing result came at Manchester City on Sunday as they went down to an insipid 2-0 defeat.
We want to kick on.
9924
Another firm called Auntie Dolores, which already specialises in the sale of medical marijuana in food products for humans, recently launched its Treat-ibles range.
9925
New sections of the Great Wall discovered by a team of experts in northwestern China .
The best known and most visible section today is the Ming Wall, constructed from 1368 to 1644.
9926
Son.
His son seems to reap the benefits of this wealth too, and enjoys showing off his luxury clothing items on his social media accounts.
9927
Starting a plane is ‘a little more complicated’ than starting a car, said Captain Piers Applegarth, a representative of the British Airline Pilots Association (BALPA).
He said: ‘This means the door is being forced closed.
9928
Now the asking price is $1,032,000 after a 37 per cent reduction.
The 585 square metre Oberon home is now selling for $149,000 .
9929
Dr Sanjay Gupta (second left), the chief medical correspondent for CNN, was asked by a Nepalese hospital to perform brain surgery on a 15-year-girl who was injured in the earthquake .
9930
Givenchy Pre Fall 2015 .
Missguided Sangeta Maxi Skirt .
Blonde babe: German fashion model Anna Ewers covers the May issue of America Harper's Bazaar .
9931
Asked whether the 2010 or 2015 version of Pacquiao would have a better chance of victory against the unbeaten Mayweather, Roach told boxingscene.com: 'That is an interesting question because there are obviously trade-offs between the two versions of Manny.
9932
Belgium's win in Jerusalem saw them return to the top of their qualifying group, ahead of Wales on goal difference.
9933
City boss Manuel Pellegrini has branded the last three months of their season as 'garbage' due to poor form .
Manchester United 0-3 Manchester City, March 2014 .
9934
Ludwigsen, 43, is accused of kissing, harassing and touching 13 of his players during his time at Nyack College .
Nyack was founded in Manhattan in 1882.
9935
The USA-owned company are currently in the process of creating the same effect, by using plant extract and bringing that to the UK.
9936
'It made me giggle to myself because it's coming up to Easter.'
The shop assistant said it made me 'giggle' when she saw the uncanny resemblance with Easter coming up .
9937
'Three little children who couldn't be more than three or four were all at the front, the dad was behind them.
Another, Ramses Crespo Cruz, posted: 'So sad that some parents are so irresponsible.
9938
And he said there were ‘just 36 days left to save Britain’s economic recovery’.
founder Simon Woodroffe appeared in a 2004 Labour broadcast.
9939
Five staff members sustained serious injuries after taking a joy ride down 'the Super Slide' at the Sydney Royal Easter Show on Saturday night, despite the slide being closed after heavy rain made it too dangerous.
9940
The nurses’ alleged inaction occurred despite the NHS’s own campaign – launched six years ago – that uses the acronym FAST, standing for Face, Arms, Speech, Time.
9941
Farage (left and right) was diminished during this debate, perhaps the only casualty of the night, and it was the women who finally took him down with a few small swats .
9942
The militants then set the meat alight and watch as hundreds of pounds worth of perfectly good food goes up in flames within sight of camps providing a home to thousands of starving refugees.
9943
But the order was never entered into any state or federal criminal databases because of a flawed reporting system between tribes and outside authorities.
9944
Nobody at Ceva Logistics, Michigan, knew Pappas was pregnant until they saw blood in the cubicle .
Pappas appeared in court on Friday via videolink to be arraigned.
9945
The Big Apple sports fans have been quick to adopt City’s plans though it will take more time – and a more wins – for the club to really catch light.
9946
The Danish star signed off her first on court interview by saying: 'See you at Roland Garros'
The Dane made her Roland Garros senior debut as a 17-year-old in 2007 .
9947
But why exactly do we snack?
According to Ms Jones, those who are stressed out due to environmental or emotional pressures are Situational Snackers.
9948
The Farnells returned to Australia with Gammy's twin sister Pipah, while Ms Chanbua remained with Gammy in Thailand's Chonburi province.
9949
Mathews saw Richar Abril twice pull out of a fight due to illness to be striped of the belt and just this week replacement Ismael Barroso was forced to pull out after failing to obtain a visa.
9950
A reporter with the liberal news outlet Vox tweeted a photo of Clinton toting her own luggage on Thursday in Omaha .
9951
On August 19, he asked a member of staff to open one of the letters which indicated the victim had no money left in his accounts.
Her gambling spiralled out of control.
9952
A talented body painter is travelling across America merging members of the public into beautiful backgrounds.
Home cooked meals have never tasted better.
9953
A pair of friends enjoy the warm weather while in the southern California desert during the music festival .
Musical acts include AC/DC, Interpol and Alabama Shakes .
9954
I am back to where I started.
He is no longer champion jockey material but he does look to have significant better chances of good rides in quality races.
9955
The graphic above shows how the virtual reality goggles would help to relieve the symptoms of travel sickness .
9956
Kilmarnock interim manager Gary Locke has been given the role on a permanent basis after signing a three-year deal.
9957
Every Fabregas touch was booed.
So much so that a split-second earlier, he had made a better effort than Cazorla at winning the ball.
9958
It was also revealed she told Italian police in 2010 she was 'forced against' her will into having sex for money with a 70-year-old 'businessman of substantial means' when she was underage.
9959
Anti-Hillary Clinton street art emerged in Brooklyn just hours before Clinton's presidential candidacy announcement on Sunday.
9960
The two players listen to the referee as he reaches for his card from his back pocket on Wednesday night .
9961
Gary Anderson 3-7 Dave Chisnall .
Phil Taylor, meanwhile, suffered his fourth defeat in five as he was beaten by his rival Raymond van Barneveld 7-2.
9962
However during the draw ceremony in Montreal, Bouchard declined Dulgheru’s offer of a sporting handshake in front of the assembled photographers.
9963
She gave birth to twins Darci-Mai (left) and Stanley (right)
Overjoyed with the news Becca was then astounded to find out that she was not carrying just one baby but two.
9964
She Tweeted a photo of the bill, which went viral and triggered outrage on the Twitter social media website.
One wrote: 'He is the meanest man in Europe.'
9965
‘It was frustrating, but he’s a very good player and it’s almost been forgotten how strongly he finished the Test summer against India.’
9966
‘When you go to the movies, you don't need to be at risk to have your family endangered, and we're talking about even Easter Sunday, you know, to come out and be engaged in this,’ said Stroud Area Regional Police Chief William Parrish.
9967
Mario Mandzukic (left) celebrates with Torres after scoring in the 4-0 win over Real Madrid in February .
August 22 - Atletico 1-0 Real .
9968
Resorts on its Black Sea coast offer the best value in terms of a meal out, buying a cup of coffee and essentials such as sun cream and a cold drink, according to a study.
9969
Famous former pupils of the £32,000-a-year school, established in 1509, include Chancellor George Osborne, Mumford and Sons banjo player Winston Marshall and TV presenter Dan Snow .
9970
But Mayweather takes special pride in being his own boss as they break the boxing bank.
Only this time they were not chasing the man who has had his run-ins with the law.
9971
Walter Smith (right) spent two spells in charge as manager of Rangers and has hailed Stuart McCall's impact .
'He has been brave enough to take the job until the end of the season.
9972
It means a hole can develop in the bowel, allowing the contents of the intestine to leak into the stomach, causing a very dangerous infection.
9973
The 18-year-old former Aston Villa trainee has been offered a professional contract but is weighing up his options and could leave this summer.
9974
Jason Morrison, a former 2UE breakfast and drive broadcaster, said the station took a financial hit after letting controversial ratings winner Alan Jones defect to 2GB in 2002.
9975
He believes this would also solve the current issue of younger visitors parking their vans illegally on the streets.
9976
Talking to New Idea, Ms King said their relationship in many ways was 'quite old-fashioned'.
In her interview with ACA, Ms King said her relationship was not a 'unique situation'.
9977
Capturing his artistic vision on camera, Stains’ owner laughs hysterically while videoing his pet sitting alongside two other dogs at home.
9978
Hassan Whiteside had 19 points and 16 rebounds for the Heat.
Pau Gasol (right) had 16 points and 15 rebounds as the Chicago Bulls beat Miami Heat 89-78 on Thursday .
9979
The presenter said the trio had planned to continue making the show until the end of the new contract before leaving 'with dignity'.
9980
Instead scientists had to synthesis it in the laboratory by bombarding a film of another heavy element known as americium with calcium ions.
9981
Subs not used: Loft, Ross, Miles.
Chelsea could have scored a dramatic winner in injury time but Luke McGee made a superb double stop to deny an Izzy Brown header, before quickly recovering to stop Tammy Abraham from close range on the follow up.
9982
The level-headed officers tell Valles 'Relax dude,' and 'c'mon man' before realizing he's out cold.
He is a fighter.
Victim:
He is a fighter.
9983
Gerard Pique, who spent four years at Manchester United, makes up the top three after winning 10 of his 12 Premier League games before rejoining Barcelona and going on to win countless trophies, including a World Cup with Spain.
9984
A 6ft 2ins central midfielder, Weigl was captain of the club until he was suspended after going out with team-mates for a late drinking session and was reportedly overheard criticising the club.
9985
'I had to push,' Irving-Elkins said, describing how she laid on the floor.
She pulled down her trousers and the baby's head was visible, Deputy Oliver said.
9986
Mauresmo revealed on Twitter: ‘Baby will be here in august!
But it also focused on whether he could rediscover the self-control that became so evident under Lendl.
9987
The signed document is expected to be taken out of a side door and delivered to the palace in an unmarked vehicle.
9988
At the business end of the season, it is so important that they are working as a team.
He knows at some point in the season he will need them and they are always fighting for him.
9989
Tamim Iqbal and Mushfiqur Rahim scored centuries as Bangladesh made 329 for six and Pakistan could only muster 250 in reply.
9990
'I was inconsistent last season.
When I came back I didn't feel right.
'Barcelona have always had great forwards, not just now with Neymar and Luis.
9991
Jordon Ibe has impressed since returning to Liverpool this season and will sign a new contract this week .
9992
With Wales suffering from injury problems in the front row, Francis (right) could be fast-tracked through the ranks to face England in the World Cup pool match.
9993
‘We had the joy of winning the Scottish Cup semi-final against Rangers at Ibrox so to then go on and lose in the final to St Johnstone was very difficult to take.
9994
Adebayor gives an underwhelming performance against League One side Sheffield United in the League Cup .
9995
French Prime Minister Manuel Valls (left) today revealed that five terrorist attacks have been foiled in France since the Charlie Hebdo massacre in January .
9996
Cleavage:
Versatile:
'Say hello from the heart of Russia!'
With best wishes for your wedding day' to 'Do not play with heart - it is one.
9997
A 160kg man who fell down a  stormwater drain has been rescued by 15 firefighters after an hour of trying to lift him out of the hole.
9998
A passerby saw the 21-year-old's wheelchair and found the man after going to investigate .
Officers recovered the man's wheelchair (pictured) for evidence after he was found alone .
9999
Galarza was selected among Gloucester's replacements for a game that they lost 23-6 at the A J Bell Stadium.
10000
'They're developing that with a very, very determined approach to exploiting social media and propaganda.'
She said he was an 'easy target, easy prey' for radicalisation.
10001
But despite the striped dress being what Routner believes is completely age-appropriate, his daughter is now 'wordlessly accepting that a dress with spaghetti straps, something sold in every Walmart in America right now, is somehow bad.'
10002
The researchers found that Yanomami people harbor microbiomes with the highest diversity of bacteria and genetic functions ever reported in a human group.
10003
Bruce said: 'I feel sorry for the supporters of big clubs who have to dig deep every week and I hope when the new TV money comes into play the Premier League can remember football does belong to supporters.
10004
On Tuesday, social media rumors of another 'purge' led Security Square Mall - five miles from where yesterday's riots took place - to close its doors, The Baltimore Sun reported.
10005
Planners in Windsor have allowed two Costa cafes less than 500 yards apart (file picture)
Costa's planning application says the new shop would be a 'significant driver to local trade'.
10006
Sunderland 2-1 Newcastle .
Three goals and three consecutive derby wins as Borini, Johnson and Jack Colback find the net.
Sunderland 1-0 Newcastle .
10007
Mrs Senior spends £240 a week on food and treats for the dogs, with veterinary bills adding another £17,000 to the yearly cost of caring for the pets .
10008
'Seeing after the match that I have been accused of biting a rival player, I want to make it clear that I did not bite anyone, nor did I try to,' the Spain right back told reporters.
10009
Robbie Neilson insists the likes of captain Danny Wilson will only leave Hearts if he is satisfied it's right for the club.
The squad needs to change.
10010
His mother, in typically bombastic fashion, hit back at critics, telling the world that she was 'proud' of the teenager who was, she added, 'fighting for freedom'.
10011
These types of licenses can also restrict the number of passengers a new driver can have in their car, according to Autoblog.
10012
I just took my time, and with 1 second left, I figured I better finish him.'
Quinton 'Rampage' Jackson (right) beat Fabio Maldonado of Brazil to win his first bout since 2011 .
10013
'I saw the replay.
I sincerely hope he forgives me.
'I do care about children a lot right now and I look at it in a much different way,' he added.
10014
She discovered an unusual taste and smell to the liquid.
A group of boys thought to have been 'messing around' in the lesson were later questioned about the incident.
10015
Dr. Anthony Moschetto, 54, of Sands Point accused of trying to have an unidentified former business partner killed, had these guns confiscated from his home by the authorities .
10016
'Having kids feels like that first seventh-grade crush that overwhelms every molecule in your body, but it’s permanent,' Kristen said.
10017
Starting with the smallest first, this is what I found . . .
What should I wear?
To my horror, I look decidedly fat.
Do I look desperate?
10018
Mark O'Meara carded a 68 on day two and ensured he will still be in the running at the weekend .
O'Meara is the third oldest man in the field in 2015, behind 65-year-old Tom Watson .
10019
Nigel Watson, author of the UFO Investigations Manual told MailOnline: ‘Lots of out-of-place artefacts have been reported, such as nails or even tools embedded in ancient stone.
10020
She was a member of the Hong Kong Pony Club and was understood to have been educated at a private tuition centre along with her younger sister.
Our investigations indicate the girl was unhappy with her life.'
10021
Spring is the hardest time to style as the weather is so changeable; dig out last year’s faux fur cropped jacket from your wardrobe and unpick the sleeves to create a gilet to throw on over T-shirts for warm, breezy days.
10022
The disastrous burglary attempt took place in the Cerro Norte neighbourhood of Cordoba, in central Argentina - and all of the men are currently in intensive care .
10023
'We've not got a squad that can compete with the top four, but at home we're a good side and it's difficult (to come here) as we've proven against Gloucester, Northampton and Saracens.
10024
Four generations of the same family: Rosa Camfield was born in June of 1913 and died Monday.
Unfortunately the marriage didn't last, and the couple divorced after about 15 years.
10025
She then shared it with animal welfare pages in the area to alert people in case there were more of the 'dangerous' balls out there.
It’s scary.’
10026
Oxford academic Stephen Fisher said there was a high chance Labour would form either a minority government or coalition with the help of the SNP, Liberal Democrats, Greens or other minor parties.
10027
Marcus Ericsson Sauber - Ferrari 1:39.751 .
Although Massa managed to keep the engine running and reversed his car, the endplate lodged under the left-front tyre, forcing him to abandon.
10028
If the SNP decided to vote against it, that's up to them.
This would essentially see Scottish MPs supporting Labour by helping to get legislation through the Commons.
10029
Tragic: Police say Linda Watson, left, was killed by her ex-husband David Watson during a 2000 custody dispute over their daughter Jordynn, right.
10030
New York Yankees' Chase Headley reacts after hitting a home run during the ninth inning of a baseball game against the Boston Red Sox on Friday which became the longest game in history for both after an outage .
10031
But their relaxing night on the luxury liner was shattered by a violent confrontation that left both unconscious.
Mr Phillips replied: ‘No.
10032
Van Persie has missed Manchester United's last six games following an ankle injury he suffered in the 2-1 defeat at Swansea on February 21.
10033
Mr Dotchin, who preached in South Africa for 16 years, strolled off instead to the nearby Revolution bar in the Old Cattle Market for a quick drink and a chat.
10034
But Fleur told her that cutting out breakfast altogether and eating two large meals a day was a better way of regulating her metabolism.
10035
However, the Electoral Reform Society claims the result in 364 seats can be called now, based on current polls and how ‘safe’ they were in 2010.
10036
A top Queensland barrister with a handsome income will use case law dating back 200 years to try to avoid a $146 speeding fine.
10037
Ref: Don Robertson .
Templeton collected a booking for diving after attempting to go past Durnan, but creating clear chances remained a trickier task.
10038
Dr Douglas Bernardt, a local resident with a PHD in architecture, described the situation as 'madness'.
The developer is very concerned and is doing everything to stop it.
10039
The 23-year-old surfer, who was taken into custody in June last year, said he cannot wait to get back in the water .
10040
Most research has focused on a patient's inability to form syntactically complex sentences when this area is damaged.
So what's Hodor's story?
10041
Sterling has attracted interest from clubs including Arsenal, Manchester City and Bayern Munich .
'If Raheem left Liverpool he would not be sure to start games.
10042
As a result of this traumatic experience, Christy founded the charity Every Mother Counts in 2010.
'They don’t get to choose whether they will be medicated, or have a natural birth.
10043
It continues: 'An engineer trained in the United States, he is believed to be the head of the Kumpulun Mujahidin Malaysia terrorist organization and a member of Jemaah Islamiyah's central command.
10044
- Equalled Tiger Woods’ Wyndham Cup appearances record playing from 2011 to 2014 .
Dalke is a talented junior golfer and was a member of Team USA when they won the 2014 Junior Ryder Cup .
10045
Eddie Redmayne (left) and Benedict Cumberbatch (right) both attended public school, which Mr Turner says is now entering its golden age .
10046
In Australia, that task is said to be made easier through the appointment of independent children’s lawyers and the commissioning of family reports, as well as through the use of expert evidence.
10047
Ivan Milat butchered and buried the bodies of seven young people between 1989 and 1992 in the Belanglo State Forest in southern NSW .
10048
His favorite discovery was a trumpet shell.
The State of Hawaii owns the artifacts and loaned them to the Smithsonian for conservation and study.
10049
Pritchard again found space just outside the area but this time he shot straight at Grant before Ince ran down the left of Brentford's defence to drive in a low shot which Button saved diving to his left.
10050
Above, the Italian coast guard attempts to help a migrant boat .
On Sunday alone, the coast guard coordinated the rescue of migrants from 22 different vessels.
10051
In college, she tanned frequently in sun beds .
Less than a year later, Glenna found a small lump in her abdomen and was told her cancer had progress to stage IV .
10052
'Lester Holt has led NBC Nightly News to great success over the past two months, and we continue to be pleased with his strong performance during this time,' an NBC News spokesperson said in a statement.
10053
In the late 1990s, seismologists found that the planet doesn't just oscillate following quakes, and instead is vibrating at extremely low frequencies all of the time.
10054
Oh my gosh.
The tornado blows debris across the road in front of Mr Smith's truck .
Then it started hailing very large golf ball-sized hail.
10055
One astonished follower wrote on Ms Bines' Facebook page at the weekend that she would be 'homeless and starving' if she paid the originally advertised price.
10056
It has been reported that Lisa Heath, 45, an assistant at Willowtown Community Primary School in Gwent, had been carrying Class B amphetamines after police were called and quizzed her.
10057
A third man has been charged after raids in Melbourne led police to foil an Anzac Day terror plot.
Over the past 12 months, Thorne's views have been the subject of public scrutiny.
10058
Mourinho has attracted controversy like no other manager in the modern game.
He also had a frosty relationship with Pep Guardiola when the pair were rival managers in Spain .
10059
The Ukip leader said anti-English sentiment in Scotland was now the 'biggest' form of racism in the UK.
'All Ukip have to offer is nasty rhetoric.'
10060
Rio's environmental secretariat has insisted that the latest incident is the result of a sudden change in water temperature.
Rubbish collection:
10061
'Developed countries export millions of tonnes of electronic waste annually into developing countries such as Ghana,' the group based in the country claims on its website.
10062
Kate is seen as a role model for young women, who are often led to believe that super skinny is beautiful .
Thomas Wylde leather skirt .
10063
The lady once again begins moving closer to the monkey, but the primate is less keen to play this time.
10064
Last week the U.N.'s human rights chief said Boko Haram fighters have been murdering dozens of young women and girls they had taken as 'wives' and using children as 'expendable cannon fodder'.
10065
In 2010 the same hospital carried out the world's first full face transplant on a man who suffered an accident leaving him without a nose and with a deformed jaw and cheekbones.
10066
Chris Brynarsky (back left) was killed in his custom car detail shop in October 2006.
'I didn't know what to do,' John Brynarsky said.
10067
He also said he is confident no other children are in danger following the incident saying investigators and detectives have taken steps to ensure everyone is safe.
10068
The 23-year-old was celebrating Tottenham Hotspur team-mate Andros Townsend's equalising goal for England against Italy when a tattoo on his arm was shown across televisions worldwide.
10069
While the company accepts donations from any race and ethnicity, donors with Danish heritage are particularly popular.
10070
While dengue isn’t generally deadly WHO said it can cause deadly complications like fluid accumulation, respiratory distress, severe bleeding or organ impairment, which present with symptoms such as severe abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, rapid breathing and bleeding gums.
10071
South West Trains warned there would be cancellations to all routes as a result of the incident.
'Where the incident occurred is a very, very busy section of the railway.
10072
This means tourists to the area can leave with a special memento from their time that they can show off to family and friends alike.
10073
Costumed characters are a regular appearance in Times Square, with a number demanding tips .
Almost 20 costumed characters were arrested last year for a catalogue of offences.
10074
The clumsy little one stumbled as he stepped down onto the path, eventually losing his balance altogether .
10075
They said I’d been seen taking pictures of police cars, which I admitted.
'I told them why, but they still demanded my pictures be deleted.
10076
New information has been revealed about the devastating car crash former FBI Director Louis Freeh (pictured above) was involved in last summer in Vermont .
10077
It coincided with Millwall’s best spell in the game and they capitalised when Abdou produced his potentially season-defining header.
10078
Sloan told detectives that he attacked Knight but testified on Monday that he didn't remember the fight and did not want to be a 'snitch'.
10079
Conservative Christian shop owners have recently come under fire after an Indiana pizzeria made national headlines for being the first store to refuse service to gay customers under new legislation in the state.
10080
Nancy has taken to using the putdown 'That is SO Phil Dunphy' to highlight her father's flaws.
I thought, 'Oh dear.
I call myself a salesfriend.'
10081
More than 420,000 people provided information about the wildlife in their back garden as part of the RSPB Big Garden Birdwatch.
10082
His appearances and goals were even posted on the internet, magistrates' heard.
The court heard that playing football helped Billam recover from the the low point in his life.
10083
What if a handful of Liverpool fans had turned up at the local mosque and started singing You’ll Never Walk Alone in the middle of Friday prayers?
10084
The chiefs said that they saw the video and Getzendaner said 'This is some funny s***', the affidavit claims.
10085
A fine goal by the Real Madrid loanee.
Real Madrid's luck appears to be in tonight as James Rodriguez has just scored an extremely fortunate goal.
10086
Charlotte said: 'This was where the idea for Healthy Selfie was born.
Harry Kersley, 20, said he used to receive harsh criticism from the other boys at his college but is now proud of his body.
10087
Days before, she had been spotted in Bahrain with ex-King Juan Carlos of Spain and Dave Clark .
Princess Beatrice enjoys her most recent ski break, in Verbier at Easter .
10088
Racegoers clad in an array of cheerful summery brights watch the action unfold .
A Jockey Club employee puts the finishing touches to the racecourse as the first ladies arrive .
10089
In shock:
Workers described the animals as being overcome with fear after living in tiny cages and total darkness for an unknown period .
10090
Miss Balding has always made clear her intentions to marry once gay marriage became legal in the UK.
‘We will convert,’ she said.
10091
Nick Robinson returned to the TV screens last night, with his voice still recovering its strength after his cancer treatment.
Don't worry about the voice.
10092
'Even his family was afraid of him.'
Sprouse was charged but not tried for Moreno's death.
The process is expected to take 15 to 30 minutes at most .
10093
The explosion resulted in the deaths of Nicholas and Moises Locon, 26, a busboy at Sushi Park.
She has also yet to be contacted by officials from the company.
10094
Pictures from the event were shared on the charity's Facebook page.
Carlton Cole (left) and Nathaniel Clyne (right) attended a fundraising event to help tackle Ebola .
10095
It includes the cost of a 10billion euro forced Nazi loan made by the Bank of Greece and the return of archaeological treasures.
10096
Governor Jerry Brown observed the survey on Wednesday, which found the lowest water level in the Sierra Nevada snowpack since 1950 when records began.
10097
A trial court in November granted DCF temporary custody of Ms Fortin.
Lawyers for Cassandra and her mother then sought an injunction prohibiting medical treatment but failed.
10098
Working in batches of five, fry the ravioli for 1–2 minutes or until golden and crisp.
Serves: 4-6 . This dish makes you look like a star without really trying.
10099
'It was much more unsettled this time last year though we saw 18.9C on St George's Day in Gravesend in Kent.
I'm more interested in what St George's Day can represent.'
10100
Before The Time 100 gala in New York, the leader of the staunchly anti-immigration Front spoke of representing a 'great political force' in Europe .
10101
As the guide leapt to his feet, the inquisitive birds scattered .
Capable of reaching running speeds of up to 70 km/hour, they're said to be able to 'run the pants off a Kangaroo.'
10102
But the development of Stannard and Thomas gives Team Sky two in-house contenders, while Wiggins raised eyebrows with his ninth-placed finish in Paris-Roubaix last year and he vowed to return.
10103
Mr Miliband responded by accusing the Tories of dragging the election campaign ‘into the gutter’.
The SNP and the Greens are on 4 per cent each.
10104
Meanwhile, in Southpaw, Jake plays Billy Hope, a professional boxer who must rebuild his life after his wife is killed and his daughter is taken away from him.
10105
However, the Deputy Prime Minister said he would also veto a deal with Mr Miliband if Labour did not set out in more detail how they would slash the deficit.
10106
Newcastle United's fans took to the street and refused to enter the stadium in protest of Mike Ashley .
A leaflet from AshleyOut.com read: ‘Time to speak up.
10107
Ouimette had more than 10 convictions during his criminal career, including one for punching an FBI agent.
Ouimette's body will be sent back to Rhode Island where Ouimette will be buried.
10108
Thirty years ago, the prosecution seemed deemed to take my life from me.
This week, prosecutors announced they did not have enough evidence to re-try him for two 1985 murders .
10109
Gary Field, pictured,  was seen at a Ukip event in South Thanet awaiting the arrival of Nigel Farage .
‘She and her people are on the extreme Left.
10110
The party used the event to confirm a raft of policies, including removing VAT from sanitary products, which they have dubbed a ‘tampon tax’.
10111
Reading manager Steve Clarke and his players will rally round goalkeeper Adam Federici to help him get over his Wembley gaffe.
He’s a professional.’
10112
In comparison, Mickelson is 44 and Tiger Woods 39.
Nicklaus believes that the duo of Spieth (left) and McIlroy 'energise' the game of golf .
10113
Rangers dropped two points at Championship bottom side Livingston in their bid for promotion .
‘It was a game that panned out the way I expected on a tight park, dry and bumpy.
10114
A US air base near Kabul and military outposts in Nuristan were targeted today as the militants continue to pursue territory in north east Afghanistan.
10115
'So it's possible that this change in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex may be related to the emotional changes that some women experience when using birth control pills.'
10116
Sven Bender (right) says Borussia Dortmund need to start scoring more goals if they want to win games .
He told Reviersport: 'You can only progress to the next round if you score goals.
10117
Scroll down for video .
COOL:
So far among serious contenders, only Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz has officially entered the 2016 presidential race.
10118
Despite the connections there is nothing to suggest Arwani was anything more than a peaceful moderate.
He referred to a statement that expressed ‘great sadness’ at the imam’s death.
10119
They have found that wild chimpanzees in Uganda eat three different types of leaf while consuming meat they had caught.
10120
A total of 295 bodies were recovered from the ferry, and nine victims remained unaccounted for when divers finally called off the dangerous search of its interior last November.
10121
But he appeared to misjudge the gap and collided with the front of the lorry's cab .
He posted his dramatic footage on Facebook where scores of people condemned the caravan driver.
10122
The Mail on Sunday was voted Sunday Newspaper of the Year for a third year in a row.
The Daily Mail was nominated in the daily newspaper category.
10123
The video showing off Mayweather's unbelievable wealth and expensive possessions surfaces just two weeks before one of the most anticipated fights in recent boxing history .
10124
Large swathes of north and central Texas were hit with tornadoes and baseball-size hail Sunday night as part of a severe storm system sweeping the region.
10125
The judge did not award Travis the full travel costs applied for.
In September last year, Travis was sentenced to three months' imprisonment, suspended for two years.
10126
Christian Benteke (centre) scored the only goal of the game as Villa won 1-0 at Tottenham on April 11 .
This should be a good contest between two England team-mates.
10127
She further told medical personnel that she was roughly two months along and had a miscarriage.'
'Purvi Patel told his friend that she began taking the drugs on July 10, 2013.'
10128
All Premier League clubs have agreed to pay the living wage from the start of the 2016-17 season .
'City engages employment and procurement practices that are robust and socially aware.
10129
Officials at Highland Oaks Middle School in Memphis, Tennessee, said the children had demonstrated an 'inappropriate use of electronic media'.
10130
Today Lincolnshire Central assistant coroner Paul Smith, concluded that Jake's death was an accident.
'We are happy he was having a great time in the place he loved.'
10131
A talented sportsman educated at Whitgift School in Croydon - who also produced England internationals Danny Cipriani and Marland Yarde - Daly was offered a contract with Surrey Cricket before opting for a career in rugby.
10132
Following the scandal, Justice Secretary Chris Grayling publicly announced that the Government was 'tearing up the system as it exists at the moment' and introduced his absconder policy.
10133
A neighbor told Daily Mail Online on Friday that five children under the age of ten, both boys and girls, were also living at the home and had been taken away by Child Protective Services.
10134
Labour has been accused of ‘hypocrisy’ and using out-of-date figures after claiming the Coalition has made it harder to get a GP appointment.
10135
The planet was discovered using a technique known as microlensing.
Using space telescopes to observe microlensing events is tricky.
10136
On Sunday, officials said they were using sonar and thermal imaging in the water and on the coastline in efforts to rescue the boy, Captain Joe Wells told First Coast News.
10137
ECB chairman Colin Graves has released very few details of the new director of cricket role for England .
It is not expected that the new appointment will have to go to every England game.
10138
In Alaska there is an ionospheric research programmed called the High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (Haarp).
10139
They found large amounts of mucus around the earring, which was ‘the body’s attempt to expel the foreign body’ Dr Lucinda Blake, one of the doctors who treated the woman, told LiveScience.
10140
During a radio interview that day, Christie, a candidate-in-waiting, said, 'Marijuana is a gateway drug' and claimed America has an 'enormous addiction problem.'
10141
He asked the area's only resident whether he agreed to the nation-building plan and, upon being given the go-ahead, declared the formation of Liberland.
10142
A ComRes survey has revealed that Nick Clegg's (right) Liberal Democrat party is now equal with Nigel Farage's UKIP in the polls.
10143
However, teenager Haneef Mubarak says nobody was fired - and remarkably the teacher who was hit turned out OK.
'He got up and resumed teaching after the demo was over.
10144
Christina Mejia is pictured talking about her daughter Jessica, who was killed in a car crash in 2009.
Mejia was studying psychology at the University of Illinois at Chicago when she died.
10145
Egypt's former president Mohammed Morsi has been sentenced to 20 years for ordering the arrest and torture of protesters in 2012.
10146
Previous poor sales were blamed on poor weather and problems with their new multi-million pound website and strong growth from rivals Primark and Next had caused them problems.
10147
It was not all 'lollipops and rainbows' though Schoenig told KSDK, and she is now getting the vehicle professionally cleaned to deal with the strong smell of cigarettes and marijuana.
10148
The lawsuit names drummer Brad Roberts, better known by his stage name, Jizmak Da Gusha, as the leader of the alleged plot to capitalize on Dave Brockie's death by using his name and likeness on T-shirts and other merchandise without authorization.
10149
Suarez expressed his frustration after the game, saying on Spanish TV: 'The referee is very bad.
He said: 'For me, the referee had a good game, it was a difficult match [to control].'
10150
Tracey Taylor went on a violent rampage following the breakdown of her 20 year relationship .
Lynsey Knott, defending, said: 'It was a life-long relationship since she was 15.
10151
And although the angle of the prints could suggest the lumbering reptiles were avid mountaineers, Bolivia’s Cal Orcko paleontological site is the result of tectonic activity that forced the earth upwards.
10152
Mussi, a second-generation Delta farmer, said Central Valley farmers have long known that in dry years they would get little or no water from state and federal water projects and would need to rely heavily on groundwater .
10153
Former president Bill Clinton said he is 'proud' of wife Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential bid for the 2016 election.
10154
LCpl Keysor even caught some of the bombs in mid-air, Channel 7's Sunday Night reported.
LCpl was awarded the VC for his 48-hour effort where he threw live grenades back at the enemy .
10155
Greg Hardy found himself in more deep water when he was forced to abandon his Bentley in flash floods .
His previous conviction was the result of a bench trial.
10156
Louis van Gaal is hoping to bring two new strikers to Old Trafford this summer with Radamel Falcao unlikely to turn his loan move into a permanent one and Robin van Persie being eyed by both Juve and Inter Milan.
10157
He has also included a stipulation that insists members of the Spanish royal family behave at all times in ways likely to 'please' and 'earn them the gratitude of'  the public.
10158
City's list featured six homegrown players this term including Lampard, who will join sister club New York City FC in July and Milner who is still pondering his future.
10159
beach body ready
.
The original poster, from Protein World, has been subject to much controversy, with many citing it as 'body-shaming'
10160
From Shailene Woodley colouring her lips with roasted beetroot to Kate Moss submerging her face in cucumber water, it seems the stars' best kept beauty hacks start in the kitchen.
10161
Players including Vincent Kompany and Gael Clichy helped youngsters add the finishing touches to the design during a street party on Wednesday - alongside women's players Lucy Bronze and Emma Lipman and Mathias Bossaerts and Kelechi Iheanacho from the Elite Development Squad.
10162
The west London club managed to defeat United with just 29 per cent possession in a game which Van Gaal claimed had been his side's best performance this season.
10163
Zeta Beta Tau's University of Florida chapter was already on probation after being found guilty of holding hazing rituals at the start of this academic year.
10164
‘I was in the area when a local man called me and said he had found a strange looking fish on his morning walk.
It’s incredibly rare to see them in New Zealand.’
10165
Simon even had a pop at goal himself with a brilliant turn in stoppage time after performing well in goal .
Simon Mignolet recovered well from his Emirates horror show.
10166
Wojciech Szczesny will start in goal for Arsenal for the their FA Cup clash with Reading at Wembley .
His unfussy style has solidified a notoriously brittle team.
10167
Patrick O'Flynn, who is also the party's economics spokesman, said Ukip needs to 'work harder' as it is 'lagging' behind with female voters .
10168
According to WCTV, the sheriff's office received information about Chapman in March.
Chapman resigned from the school as the investigation got underway.
10169
The body was inside a plastic bag in the garbage can, according to reports.
It is the second time an abandoned baby has died at the university campus in eastern Ohio.
10170
The travel-themed collection includes a Maori hei tiki pendant from New Zealand (estimated value: £8,000 to £12,000)
10171
The dramatic win by the Warriors was mirrored by Chicago's double-overtime victory over Milwaukee.
The Bulls also established a 3-0 series lead, as did Cleveland against Boston.
10172
Assistant professor of English Will Dickey approved Miller's project and 'thought it was a fantastic idea'.
'Nothing lasts forever.'
10173
The Los Angeles Clippers were far too strong for the Denver Nuggets in a 107-92 victory .
Dirk Nowitzki had 18 points to lead the Mavericks.
10174
According to the ABC, police have said that inquiries to date suggest the death was suspicious.
Officers are appealing to the public for any information about the incident.
10175
But she failed in her bid to prove further allegations of harassment and victimisation against the dentist.
The claimant said it occurred.
10176
Dr Lund said that it was this treatment that later led to his reputation as a hunchback - something that was later picked up by Shakespeare.
10177
Former Real Madrid ace Kaka and Canadian international Cyle Larin proved the difference as Orlando City earned all three points against Portland Timbers at a sold-out Providence Park.
10178
'You can hear the child yelling screaming,' said the prosecutor in court on Wednesday according to News 8.
Her bail has been set at $1million.
10179
She lost everything in the storm - but in its aftermath she met the love of her life and won the lottery .
It’s a home', Mr Klaus told the News 8 channel.
10180
A 10 tonne 'fatberg' made up of congealed waste has been removed from a sewer underneath one of London's most exclusive streets.
10181
Mourinho sees him as potential back-up to Thibaut Courtois and Petr Cech is expected to move on in the summer with Paris Saint-Germain favourites to sign him.
10182
The four-day Easter long weekend will be extended by an hour when clocks go back an hour at 3am on Sunday - including Australian states such as NSW .
10183
He added: 'I'm not a 1D kind of guy.
Despite failing to get the better of Paisley, Sturridge did hint that his next goal celebration would be a new move called 'Feed the Ducks'.
10184
When it comes to dealing with the deficit and setting out an economic strategy, Cameron, Miliband and Clegg have had their plans ruthlessly dissected.
10185
Alaba became the latest on Bayern's injury list when he tore a left knee ligament while on duty for Austria.
'The squad Bayern have put together is there to fight for all the titles.
10186
Great outdoors:
Two women admire the Fountain of Love as they enjoy the sunshine at Cliveden House and grounds in Berkshire .
Day at the beach:
10187
With the door jammed, it is seen constantly moving up and down hitting her skull each time.
With the door jammed, it is seen constantly moving up and down hitting her skull each time .
10188
Graeme Dott, another former champion, must come from behind on Wednesday to book his place in the main draw as he trails world number 52 Yu Delu 5-4.
10189
A fearless lion leaps on to a hippo calf's back in Kruger National Park in South Africa .
The predator bounds towards the hippo calf, who desperately attempts to flee its attacker .
10190
This historic house in one of Britain's most exclusive postcodes is up for sale for £6.95million.
Pristine gardens from the back of the property.
10191
Hacking: Once onboard, he pondered on Twitter whether he would be able to hack into the flight's onboard computer settings.
, Roberts' lawyer said.
10192
Crystal Palace manager Alan Pardew is keen on bringing in a star name to boost the club's profile .
'In a way the team have taken that equation away.'
10193
Even though the cancer is now microscopic he is still taking hormone treatment .
He is about to try a new type of radiotherapy, but expects to be on hormone therapy indefinitely.
10194
For example, Asda’s Piri Chicken Pasta Salad contains 46.5g of fat – two thirds of the recommended daily intake for an adult – which is more than the 43.3g found in a Burger King Bacon and Cheese Whopper.
A Which? spokesman said: ‘We’ve uncovered sandwiches and salads that contain more calories and fat than a Big Mac. ‘
10195
Bomb expert David Hyche put a transmitter in a plastic egg so his daughter could join the fun .
She wants to do it by herself and most of these kids want to do that too,' he told WBRC.
10196
The New York judge who sentenced Spears on Wednesday said she suffers from a mental illness and said the crime was still 'unfathomable in its cruelty.'
10197
Tiger Woods is in it to win it — but it would be a ‘disaster for everyone’ if he limps out of the Masters this week.
It’s a buzz.
‘If Rory McIlroy starts with a 69, 68, so does Tiger, marvellous.
10198
Following the birth.
'I'm so pleased she doesn't have to go through any of it,' she said after hearing Libby's six week scan gave her the all clear.
10199
The court heard that Stockton Council's environmental health department investigated the pub after receiving a complaint from a member of the public saying they had food poisoning.
10200
‘I did not want to get into a situation next week when I had to say "sorry mate, he is not running" and did not want to stop him getting a good ride.
10201
Jordan Spieth won his first ever major title with victory at the Masters at Augusta on Sunday .
'Jordan started fantastically well and has kept his foot down and been really impressive.'
10202
Police are now reviewing the earlier case in light of the shooting of Mr Scott.
No other officers had seen what happened at the shooting scene, according to Driggers.
10203
The SNP has claimed that it will be 'entitled to vote against any bit of legislation' and 'any bit of spending' it does not agree with.
10204
'Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love lived in the home during the height of Nirvana's musical influence 91-92 to be specific.
That's why they moved out.'
10205
Voters for the Scottish National Party are more likely to bring out the Speedo swimming trunks .
They are the most likely to take the hotel toiletries home (57%).
10206
Midfielders: Philippe Coutinho, Raheem Sterling, Juan Mata, Sadio mane .
Kane has scored 19 league goals, although he was mistakenly named best player by Youssouf Mulumbu .
10207
She said that hunting bush babies with tools may be a way of allowing them to get access to a highly nutritious food source without having to chase down their prey.
10208
His left hand is still in a cast from the attack.
The court official said it was possible prosecutors may add such charges against Kim during the trial.
10209
Tiger Woods achieved it at the Home of Golf.
And so, 155 years after the first major championship, another season opens with a potentially epochal event.
10210
The family were walking near their home at Caves Beach, near Lake Macquarie, when he was killed suddenly in a puddle that was connected to a fallen live electrical wire .
10211
While 32 per cent keep their possessions in a shoebox, the box itself is then filed away to a loft, cupboard or garage.
10212
'Prefer NON drinker and smoker (i know i'm dreamin), fit attractive, will get free gym membership, to a gym of there choice, phone of there choice, must be reliable, honest, and loyal, good around th house, be good with their hands, good cook, great in bed.'
10213
Some claimed the final, won by Sheffield United following a 3-0 victory over Chelsea, should not have taken place at all following the outbreak of war the previous year.
10214
Once the euphoria of a last gasp winner subsides, Benzema’s extra quality has to be recognized and ‘El Chicharito’s’ place will eventually be back on the bench.
10215
Placing their children in the frames was a cathartic experience that, Jennifer says, helped her fully understand how she had been affected.
10216
The Georgia resident also stated that he felt 'horrible' and 'wished it was him who was hurt' before writing; 'So yes i am now most likely f****d because i had an unfortunate ACCIDENT with the wrong car that night.'
10217
Arsenal midfielder Francis Coquelin, who has become an integral part of their midfield, celebrates with fans .
10218
In 2009, the Tulsa Sheriff's Office concluded after an internal investigation that Bates had received special treatment during training and while working as a reserve deputy, CBS News reports.
10219
Travel in style:
26-year-old Andreas Arnhoff spends his time in the United States at the glorious Miami Beach Golf Club with his friends .
10220
Heavyweights:
Fever:
Wrestlers block off their opponents' punches in a closely fought bout in yesterday's gripping spectacle in Dakar .
Jeering:
10221
Much of the focus in Spain revolves around Real Madrid and Barcelona's decision to sign a new right back before the start of next season.
10222
But despite already undergoing dozens of procedures, Mr Alves has admitted that he will never stop going under the knife because he is dedicated to his continuous transformation.
10223
'Based on this information we have launched an investigation.'
The investigation was launched on the island of Alderney (pictured) following the deaths of four patients .
10224
The video sees a 'vampire girl' prey on unsuspecting late-night walkers in Odessa, Ukraine .
However, despite the video's viral success, not all the commentators have been amused.
10225
Subs not used: Hennessey, Hangeland, Kelly, Ameobi.
Yannick Bolasie even made the effort to go over and shake Pulis’ hand as he strolled down the touchline.
10226
Marca also recognises this issue at the Santiago Bernabeu.
In France, L'Equipe reports that PSG's 3-2 win at Marseille is an indictment at the improvement of Ligue 1 .
10227
Jonathan Hilder, CEO of the Automatic Vending Association, estimated that forgeries make up some 3.03 per cent of the more than 1.5billion £1 coins in circulation.
10228
Pellegrini has said Manchester City must sign a 'crack' player such as striker Sergio Aguero .
It is very important the way we finish this season before we analyse all the players.
10229
He made an instant impact in the side which had just lost main striker David Trezeguet through injury, scoring 16 goals in his first season.
10230
Daredevil Nik Wallenda says he'll walk untethered on top of a 400-foot observation wheel in Orlando, Florida, this month.
10231
She has been accused of theft, according to documents filed in Johnson County District Court.
Detectives who began following Bauer said they saw her stealing items from several stores.
10232
And Pearson said of the 34-year-old former Real Madrid, Inter Milan and Argentina player: 'Even if he hadn't scored the goal, I would still have said he was man of the match.
10233
'He brought great knowledge and international experience to the Proteas set-up, and we wish him well in his future endeavours.
10234
'We've got to pick ourselves up and move onto the next one, and take the confidence we gained from the last four wins into the last five games.'
10235
The Times was present at Price's announcement.
Even if the $70,000 minimum wage is a publicity stunt, it's one that will cost him big time.
10236
Debenhams said despite fewer sale events, feedback suggests customers now think the store is better value .
10237
She admitted that laser removal surgery was 'not an option' as she had heard it was extremely painful and expensive.
She said: 'I really like the new design.
10238
The canal boat was moored near a children's play area in Christchurch Meadows, where the River Thames flows through Reading.
Bizarre sight:
10239
Police officers photographed the famous car as it travelled between Stoke-on-Trent and Crewe yesterday .
And he had set the Tarmac on fire!
10240
'It generates eight percent of US greenhouse gases according to one study.
'Some believe that desflurane has clinical advantages that argue for its continued use.'
10241
Matthews, of Warmley, South Gloucestershire, appeared at Bristol Crown Court on March 26, along with five others charged in connection with the death.
10242
'Every day is truly a gift.
Although her future is still uncertain the family are making the most of their time with her and take her on family outings.
10243
Danny Welbeck, who left United for Arsenal last summer, hasn't fared much better too - having scored eight goals in all competitions for the Gunners.
10244
The supermarket's campaign backfired with customers taking to Facebook and Twitter to vent their anger .
Twitter was flooded with memes of the Woolworths campaign.
10245
resident Martha Miller told KFVS.
He added that most of the officers are part time and work for other towns in the surrounding area.
10246
This compares with some £10,275 in Scotland.
It also comes amid growing pressure on English hospitals' finances, amid warnings of a financial 'black hole'.
10247
While the Dutch club refused to comment on the nature of the offence which led to the arrest, a police spokesman is quoted by local media as saying it was 'sexual’.
Wallace is on a season-long loan at Vitesse.
10248
'I know I feel very powerful in this car with the package we have, and I feel I'm able to get everything from it.
'Ultimately, I don't care what people think.
10249
John King, Mr King’s son, who lives in Brighton, East Sussex, said the botched investigation had been a ‘bureaucratic nightmare’ for all concerned.
10250
What is the nickname for Arsenal fans?
Saskia kept her boyfriend happy with creative answers to his questions, and got double marks for some...
10251
Mr Spalding's body parts were found inside this suitcase, which was dumped in the Birmingham Canal .
'Michael finally broke and complained at their treatment.
10252
When Bell was arrested, she told police in an interview that she 'didn't find the victim sexually attractive but they got on well as friends.'
10253
‘The findings from this study provide information that could be used to develop strategies to prevent and redress the impact of westernization and potentially support the dispersal and transmission of microbes that have been eradicated.’
10254
And is at a complete contrast to its adopted mother, who watches the puppy while relaxing on the floor.
10255
Lee Clark admitted Blackpool face a challenge to win back their stay-away fans after relegation .
Blackpool fans gathered outside Bloomfield Road to protest against the Oyston family .
10256
Her sense of humor only made her more beautiful,” he told the site.
'This statue looks nothing like the beautiful Lucy we all know.
10257
With this knowledge, Park Inn by Radisson becomes the first travel brand in the world to offer a virtual holiday experience for the new breed of digital traveller.
10258
His action looked smooth and confident.
Now he was the one passing on the insight, as he strolled to the tee with British Amateur champion, Bradley Neil.
10259
He added that it was important to ‘think past today's technology’, explaining that such a system could be used in an emergency on the ground to take remote control of a plane and safely land it.
10260
But Biosecurity Queensland officials have now given up looking for the snake and authorities will instead put up a warning sign.
10261
When he decides to throw some of her rocks away Silvia reveals that it makes her feel anxious and stressed.
Silvia says: 'I'm so excited that he's okay.'
10262
That is when Suzanne reportedly grew belligerent, and can be heard cursing on their body cams, at which point they restrained her.
I can't breathe!'
10263
The part-time actor was going through customs to board his EasyJet flight, when airport staff discovered he had six £1.80 tubs of the traditional pudding and North East delicacy in his hand luggage.
10264
'Years later I found out that his computer didn't produce very good pictures, but it's okay, it still made me feel good at the time
.
10265
Mr Hunt said: ‘The NHS has set out its vision for how we best improve the health service for patients, and today we are backing that plan with the money it needs.
10266
Before the video wraps up, the man finally realizes that the interview is not meant to show catcalling in a positive light, asking: 'Wait a second, are you reporting that girls don't like this?'
10267
And Marjorie also hails from a big family.
The news of Josiah's courtship with Marjorie is just one of the Duggar family's major announcements in the past year.
10268
This photo is from the Ellery show .
'It was loud but it was all part of the dramatic vibe,' a guest at the Ellery show told Daily Mail Australia.
10269
Responding to a journalist's question, he said: 'The city itself is not symbolic in any way.
She was also expecting a phone call from him at some point today.
10270
Generations of families have become stuck in poverty because of their continuing refugee status.
With a Hindu nationalist party winning a share of power in Kashmir, there is hope.
10271
Tendring District Council had been granted a warrant to investigate 'nuisance' at the house, following complaints about noise and dog faeces.
10272
‘It is no exaggeration to say that frail older people are being put at risk of serious harm or worse.’
‘When administering medicine, you often have to phone the office to ask what to do.’
10273
The authority says it has now agreed an 'appropriate care plan', and are understood to be in discussion with Mr Jatta over the future of his wife's care - but she is currently still in a home.
10274
Rodgers believes his team have the mental strength to cope, though.
'We will go there focused and desperate to play after the disappointment of the weekend,' added Rodgers.
10275
Smalling scored United's fourth goal in their 4-2 derby demolition.
All of United's outfield players celebrate as they gave noisy neighbours Manchester City .
10276
'In my child's mind, I thought of myself as his wife rather than his daughter.'
Mandy did not return home and the abuse stopped.
And Dave was my rock.
10277
The Manchester middleweight was in action for the first time since losing to Luke Rockhold last year.
'CB was a dangerous opponent.
10278
Overall, 55.2 of every 100,000 people aged over 65 are diagnosed with skin cancer every year.
The figures are part of a worrying increase in incidents that affects all age groups.
10279
Arsenal's midfield trio Jack Wilshere, Mikel Arteta and Abou Diaby have all been handed starts for the club's Under 21s game on Tuesday night as they continue their respective recoveries from injury.
10280
Miss Brand added: 'It was clear to the doctors she was in a bad state.
Medical experts ruled her death was a direct result of her serious brain injuries sustained in the 2000 attack.
10281
The Showtime video takes you inside Floyd Mayweather Jnr's training camp ahead of $300m fight .
Mayweather works on the bag as he prepares for the Fight of the Century on May 2 .
10282
Sinfield, 34, the greatest captain in Leeds' history, stunned the world of rugby league on Tuesday with his sudden announcement that he will quit the sport at the end of the season and join the Rhinos' sister club Yorkshire Carnegie on an 18-month contract.
10283
But he noted the deal could see 'real political difficulties'.
Bush considered the  comparison to show Putin did not think in 'win-win' terms, he said.
10284
Mauro Zarate (QPR) Perhaps the Argentinian should have taken the hint when Harry Redknapp tried to send him back to West Ham before he had even kicked a ball for the R’s.
10285
But agent Adam Wheatley, co-founder of the company with Sir Ian Botham, insists that everything has been done in-house since the brief involvement of former Sun editor David Yelland during KP's supposed reintegration into the England team in 2012.
10286
Artist Lauren Baker added the half a million crystals by hand saying she has an obsession with working with the shining gem stones .
Lauren said her work: 'I'm really drawn to working with crystals.
10287
The unidentified inmate was eventually subdued by a group of officers, who saw their colleague knocked out on the ground after being hit repeatedly .
10288
Many are engaged in security and this is where it gets serious.
Resorts here like to steer the foot traffic through the casino floors but Sibella is putting safety first.
10289
Nishikori holds up the Japanese flag with the trophy after his second straight Barcelona Open title success .
10290
The ICRC is aiming to get 48 tonnes of medical supplies into Yemen by plane.
Pakistan troops are already conducting anti-Taliban operations.
10291
What a mess: Randy, who runs a law firm, told Daily Mail Online that he staged the prank in revenge for one his granddaughters pulled on him earlier in the day .
10292
Sign of the times: A sign along Interstate 5 reading 'Stop the Congress Created DUST BOWL' is pictured in the Central Valley of California.
10293
But they face competition from United.
Bolasie celebrates after netting a hat-trick against Sunderland and he is wanted by Liverpool in the summer .
10294
Daspletosaurus, shown in the artists reconstruction above,  led a violent life the study suggests .
10295
Jose Mourinho?
A year later he was in the Premier League and picked up the Players’ Player of the Year award at the club after a prolific season.
10296
Then in 2011, she developed a kidney infection, leading doctors to warn she was risking her life by starving her body.
10297
The time difference, sleep patterns,' he told Sportsmail.
Lampard will join up with parent club New York City in July after signing a  two-year deal with the MLS side .
10298
New baddie:
One of the TIE fighters seems to attack its own base, suggesting it was commandeered by whomever the troops are fighting against.
10299
She saw Jesus in a x-ray of the area right over her heart.
A cancer-stricken Indiana woman saw Jesus Christ in her x-ray after she was hospitalized with pneumonia .
10300
Creamer continued: 'There's no reason why you can't revisit things.
World No 27 Creamer hits a tee shot on the 13th hole at Ko Olina Golf Club on April 15 .
10301
Hazard has been in superb form for Chelsea this season and scored the winner against Manchester United .
But he is the humble star, yes.
10302
The judge permitted Giudice to drive home from court but said he would be sent to jail immediately if he drove again after that.
10303
Sam Allardyce's future as West Ham boss is in doubt at the same time as a letter regarding the end of his tenure at Blackburn Rovers does the rounds .
10304
Bid time:
'The items are from a lady who collected handbags, shoes and clothes throughout her lifetime and just enjoyed buying and owning them.'
10305
Spieth has competed in four events in a row as the new Masters champion shows his commitment to the sport .
Their own flagship event is surely one.
10306
He told the Torquay inquest that a computer in his room was on and a website ‘appeared to make reference to ways to commit suicide’.
10307
She said: 'The ring is lovely - it has a gold band with a pink stone.'
She added: 'I picture myself in a silk dress that shows off my cleavage, as Jordan likes my boobs!
10308
Mulumbu challenges QPR defender Yun Suk-Young during West Brom's 4-1 defeat at The Hawthorns .
Defenders: Nathaniel Clyne, John Terry, Jose Fonte, Cesar Azpilicueta .
10309
However, the number of worldwide unprovoked shark attacks has grown at a steady pace since 1900, with each decade having more attacks than the previous .
10310
But Sharon and Mike Tierney have taken their mutual upkeep to a whole new level, believing that 'the couple that waxes together, stays together.'
10311
Singer-songwriter Don McLean's original manuscript and notes to 'American Pie' have been sold at auction for $1.2 million.
'If only he would make the music live,' according to the Telegraph.
10312
She says: 'As Coca-Cola knows all too well, linking its product to happy and exciting events such as visiting the London Eye is likely to forever link Coca-Cola to the idea of 'fun' in the minds of impressionable kids'
10313
Lu Xincai takes his 84-year-old mother to work with him on the back of his motorbike every day.
His wife works in a different city and his son is still in school.
10314
However, Ms Taylor has released her own statement, in which she claims she was wrongly accused in the incident, which occurred between March 27 and 29, and says Mr Jones was 'unprofessional'.
10315
But that didn't stop the couple, who survived a war and a number of relocations through their long marriage.
The nickname stuck with Bill long after his radio show ended.
10316
Giroud is one of a number of good options Wenger has up front.
But some perspective is needed.
Liverpool couldn’t cope with his aggression.
10317
On March 30, a Turkish Airlines flight made an emergency landing after a note with the word 'bomb' was reportedly found in the toilet.
10318
Gary Caldwell admitted his first taste of management was 'crazy' following Wigan's battling 2-2 draw against Fulham.
'We'll try to win every game,' he added.
10319
Norway has become the first country to announce it will switch off its FM radio service in 2017 and other countries are expected to follow.
10320
– were found in the wreckage of the aircraft .
Lives cut short: It is understood the couple were moving to a larger house and were planning to start a family .
10321
Lena Dunham surprised her fans last year when she unveiled her own platinum blonde version on Instagram, stating, 'Change is good' Agyness Deyn was famed for her raven version  in 2010 .
10322
Here Toure carried on getting it from Gary - who referred to the 'dereliction of duty' in his performance before adding that Yaya's recent form was: 'Not a conundrum anymore.
10323
Viv also spent time with lawyers to claw back some of the fortune taken by the taxman.
This was turned into a BBC play, in which Viv was memorably portrayed by actress Susan Littler.
10324
While no figures have been revealed, compensation for such cases regularly run into seven figure sums.
Arline Kercher, Meredith's mother, described the acquittal ruling as 'odd'.
10325
Diane revealed that their approach baffled many close to them.
'I didn’t really want to tell either one of our families for a long time what we were planning.
10326
The Gulf state's rulers converted three prime properties on Cornwall Terrace in London's Regent's Park into a huge mansion worth £200million .
10327
As we grow older, our taste in music diverges sharply from the mainstream up to age 25, and a bit less sharply after that,' explained the company on its Insights blog.
10328
Van Barneveld (left) and Van Gerwen pose in front of the No 17 shirt worn by another countryman, Daley Blind .
Dublin you were fantastic.'
10329
Marry
.
Got eyes for a Duke?
Eligible bachelor:
Prince Harry is one of the eight 'future husbands' listed on the charm's playful spinner wheel .
10330
The start-up shows the lighter being used to ignite candles, incense, gas stove tops and paper as long as the material fits between the electrodes.
10331
The hourglass silhouette has me embracing my inner Joan Holloway from Mad Men.
Imagine my amazement at the transformation once it’s on.
2/5 .
10332
'The games have to be played,' Nolito added.
Celta Vigo forward Nolito has declared that Messi should head to the beach rather than playing his team .
10333
Green Party activists have been told to dress in 'mainstream' fashion while knocking on doors in a bid to win over sceptical voters.
10334
Gavin Sutherland of Gavin’s Traditional Butchers, based in the nearby retail park in Dornoch, said yesterday of the abattoir: ‘It has been knocked to the ground.
10335
'It was a surreal experience – simply amazing!
The team wanted to get as close as they could to the skier but without any cameramen appearing in any shots .
10336
President Obama said he's 'sad' and he 'starts tearing up in the middle of the day and I can't explain it'
And what's there not to like?
'
10337
Mega yachts .
Fancy chartering a 75ft Sunseeker Predator?
Myriad companies offer the use of a pristine, turbo-charged super car for the day .
10338
It means, Argentine wizard Messi now has 49 goals for the season, Brazilian hero Neymar has 32 and summer signing Suarez has 21.
10339
Bedene's conqueror Jiri Vesely of the Czech Republic will play Gimeno-Traver in the semi-finals .
10340
17-year-old Logan Mason and a 25-year-old man swam out to Payge and assisted her in bringing the man back to shore.
'My cousin Kelly did CPR she did so good.
10341
Hard target: The tortoise attempts a quick getaway under the watchful eye of one of the curious cheetahs .
Snarl:
Slow and steady:
10342
The former triathlete said that with some of the costumes it was hard for people to tell whether they were dressed up or not .
10343
Altcourse, the first prison in the UK to be designed and constructed for a private operator, has been criticised for drug-related violence.
10344
She and her co-anchors laughed the comments off, particularly the group's misspelling of the word Global.
'Buy some decent clothes and have more respect for your unborn child.
10345
Though this intriguing interplay of gravity and light in SDP.81 has been studied previously by other observatories, none has captured the remarkable details of the ring structure in such detail.
10346
The shere volume of snow that fell earlier this year, nearly 65 inches fell in February alone, means that huge piles of the white stuff still remain.
10347
'The aim is to raise more money for more nurses in the UK with the wonderful Marie Curie, who make life much more bearable in a difficult time in your life.'
10348
O'Brien says he is unaware of the health status of the victims in this case, whether or not any of them contracted HIV through Allen.
10349
After a tense and goalless first-half, midfielder Charlie Colckett's deflected shot gave Chelsea the lead.
Chelsea will now face Shakhtar Donetsk's U19s team in the final.
10350
'It turned out he was suffering a reaction to the new daylight bulb lights.
Mrs Creag continued: 'Doctors said his EPP was an inherited condition.
10351
She has vowed to start a petition to have the area closed to public after hearing of the drowning of teenager Miracle Godson .
10352
On current standings, Arsenal, Atletico Madrid and Porto will drop in status in the August 27 draw.
Bayern Munich .
Juventus .
PSG .
Benfica .
10353
The retired couple told Spain’s Olive Press news website that they have done nothing wrong but face losing the estate over illegal additions made by a previous owner.
10354
However, according to health authorities, the move was purely based on reshuffling junior medical faculty.
10355
Hazard is poised to win PFA Player of the Year as Chelsea storm towards the Barclays Premier League title, but Neville says Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi are 'in outer space' by comparison.
10356
The Louisiana State University students were found with nearly 2,000 beers, ten liters of spirits and several litres of wine on the I-10 in Mobile County.
10357
The star received widespread public support - including from his friend Prime Minister David Cameron - in the aftermath of the fracas, and one million people signed a petition calling for the BBC to reinstate him.
10358
The Scotsman sealed a 7-5 win over rival Van Gerwen as he averaged 105.94.
I’m over the moon,' Van Gerwen told Sky Sports on his earlier victory against Wade.
10359
Cruelty:
They say the state-appointed catchers round up dogs and take them to holding pens where they can be 'clubbed to death' and set on fire.
10360
The final challenge involved the players shooting at cars from long range, with Remy and Willian winning .
10361
But Manchester City is a top team so it shall not be easy.
, Van Gaal conceded that it was ‘mathematically possible’ for United to win the league.
10362
Earl Olander was found beaten to death in his own home.
The 90-year-old was found dead at his home in rural Minneapolis with his hands bound behind his back .
10363
Pink top, £125, lkbennett.com .
Floral print skirt, £109, fennwrightmanson.com .
Sandals, £38, office.co.uk .
Bag, £30, next.co.uk .
10364
In there place, speed enforcement operations have been carried out by a small number of mobile camera units, fixed cameras on motorways and traffic officers on patrol.
10365
Many people who saw the picture felt that she did not want me to tell people the information I had gained.” 'What Dwells Within’, a book detailing some of Jayne Harris’ most memorable paranormal encounters, co-written with Dan Weatherer, will be released in June.
10366
While it is not our campaign, we support action that is intended to bring about change in ownership of the club particularly if it ultimately results in increased supporter representation/ownership.
10367
CCTV pictures show a man police want to speak to after a 'peeping Tom' incident at a swimming pool .
'However, this would have been an understandably distressing incident for her.
10368
I want to stay at the club until the end of my contract.’
We have to be better than ever but I think we’re prepared to cope with the hard situation that we have.’
10369
Iker Casillas kept a clean sheet against Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday night during Real Madrid's 2-0 win .
Cristiano Ronaldo scored the 300th goal of his Real Madrid career against Rayo .
10370
High winds blowing sand across the United Arab Emirates have caused mayhem for people trying to travel and work in the country.
10371
Los Angeles International Airport, U.S.
Luton is a favourite with budget airlines, and this can lead to long queues for customers .
Which?
.
.
10372
But local business owners say the group is no longer performing a public service as advancements in parking meter technology mean expiry times are not always displayed.
10373
'That stuff doesn't cross my mind.
Hamilton claimed after the race that Rosberg (left) was not quick enough to catch him even if he tried .
Nico didn't try.
10374
Girlfriend-approved:
'FRIENDS FOREVER': Teigen was snapped with the POTUS and FLOTUS at Satuday's big event.
Jennifer Lopez is a huge fan.
10375
The author has declared that she has no interest in cosmetic surgery, deciding instead to grow older gracefully .
I'm not going to get Botox or have things done.
10376
Huskies, such as the one pictured, have become increasingly popular due to shows such as Game of Thrones .
Max is part corgi, part husky, and is looking for a new home .
10377
'The entire structure is in an excellent state of repair.
An impressive table sits among bookcases in the stunning castle that was once taken by Napoleon .
10378
The outfit has suffered a little with age, however.
When Leigh wore it in the movie, it was slate blue-gray but over the years it has faded to light gray.
10379
If this guy’s acquitted I’ll join protest.'
South Carolina Senator Tim Scott also added his thoughts on the killing, describing Mr Scott's death as 'avoidable'
10380
The GR20 trail runs down the mountainous spine of Corsica and happens to be the toughest trek in Europe .
Next day I decided to cheat and cut short the itinerary.
10381
He said that her supportive family always turned up to watch her high school games.
Police still haven't said what he was doing at the hotel .
10382
Belgium's edition of the Tomorrowland festival pay one pound a day less than those in Coachella .
Coachella is listed as the most expensive festival, while Exit Serbia works out cheapest .
10383
Their Chipotle lunch became a media storm.
Not the only one with a taste for Mexican: Marco Rubio also dipped into Chipotle for lunch the other day .
10384
A new report from Suncorp Bank suggests Australian's have spent 50 per cent more on digital devices than they planned in the last year, with mobile phone bills as the biggest expense .
10385
And while my TV is also new, I paid more for one that’s smaller, white and in keeping with the white fibreglass Sixties table on which it sits.
10386
‘Chinese children are participating in research to determine if more exposure to daylight will protect them from their myopic genes.
10387
He added that it was a cool day - around 55 degrees with showers - and the pooch had access to food and water.
10388
The Belgium striker missed the whole international break and last weekend's win over Southampton with a hamstring injury and will not be risked until he is 100 per cent.
10389
'She's just a troublemaker,' the butcher told Daily Mail Australia.
Ms Bartholomew (pictured with Mr Guerra) said the butcher told her to 'go to a f***ing Aussie butcher'
10390
An image taken at one of the dawn services held in Queensland's Gold Coast .
This Aussie documents his first Anzac Day as an Australian soldier .
10391
Going down on one knee is always a nerve-wracking experience but popping the question in public comes with an extra helping of risk.
Bombshell:
10392
After he left the store, he withdrew another $100 in cash, she told Daily Mail Online.
She said there are limited details available regarding that incident and his time at the hospital.
10393
Berdych shakes hands with Raonic following the Canadian's decision to retire from the encounter .
10394
While there were many genuine dramatic photos to emerge from the devastating storm, such as torn up roads and floating houses, not all of them were quite what they seemed.
10395
He said: 'It was love at first sight for me.
Although Laura was completely overjoyed by the proposal she admits that Fabio's choice of film was questionable.
10396
The Portuguese was booked after being brought down by Rayo defender Antonio Amaya inside the box, incurring a one-game suspension in the process.
10397
After the reported increased risk in breast cancer for women taking combined HRT, use of the therapy dropped dramatically.
10398
Most of the Tory cash came from wealthy individuals, who handed over £460,000.
Labour received 14 times more in union donations than the Lib Dems total cash gifts combined.
10399
A rush of emotion at sunset.
The future bride said of their adventure: 'When he pointed to the pin placed on Venice, Italy, my heart stopped.'
10400
A Florida childrens hospital has installed a 'catcam' to let patients play remotely with abandoned animals.
The system was developed by Idaho firm ReachIn.
10401
Some have claimed the thieves were already hiding inside the building waiting to be locked in.
Tuesday, April 7: At 8am, workers return to the building and finding 'scenes of chaos'.
10402
The New England Journal of Medicine has cited black tea in health issues before, publishing a 2013 case that found a 47-year-old woman had developed a bone disease from drinking a pitcher of tea made from 100 to 150 bags of tea every day.
10403
Later in the video the excited Shibu Inu begins running in its owner's arms in its attempts to get closer to the husky.
10404
They are now developing a gene therapy that would boost the production of LEM proteins, in turn increasing the number of T-cells available to attack cancer cells.
10405
He added: ‘I had to strategise.
US stores have made the day a huge event, promising big short-term discounts to create excitement and queues outside shops.
10406
Jane Laut had been free on bail but was rearrested in the court hallway after the hearing.
Jane Laut was arrested and charged in 2009 (left) for the murder of her husband David Laut.
10407
Today, ex-Army tank driver Ian Gibson from Hillingdon in Middlesex told an employment tribunal that he was subjected to a tirade of 'horrible harassment' while working at H and G Contracting Services Ltd at Heathrow Airport.
10408
Nedum Onuoha is wanted by Hull City.
Stoke manager Mark Hughes who signed him for QPR is also interested as are Everton and West Ham.
10409
Friends of 16-year-old Rachelle Owen said the teenager ‘just wanted to be with her mum’ Kay Diamond, who was discovered dead in February.
10410
Bolt runs with children during visit to sports complex at Mangueira shantytown in Rio on Thursday .
Bolt insists that when he is fully fit he is almost impossible to beat .
10411
Britain's biggest fashion retailer has an impressive line in designer copies selling for a fraction of the price of the big labels.
10412
Authorities traced the calls back to the home Rogalski shares with his father, about 40 miles from where the 2012 attack unfolded, and he was arrested.
10413
A relative of Britain's youngest convicted terrorist is believed to be among two  teenagers who have fled into Syria to join Isis.
10414
A course of MBCT treatment typically lasts for eight weeks and mainly relies on meditation but also includes cognitive behaviour therapy and yoga.
10415
His ball came to a virtual standstill, before trickling downhill towards the pin, and stopped rolling right on the edge of the cup just long enough to reveal his sponsor’s logo before dropping in.
10416
Mr Boles demanded.
Former Defence Secretary Liam Fox said the lack of clarity from Labour over Trident left Britain in a 'very dangerous position'.
10417
The Lib Dems have sought to claim the mantle as the 'party of education', pledging to protect spending from 'cradle to college' for 2 to 19-year-olds.
10418
But when she pulled him off her shoulder his neck snapped backwards, killing the boy.
But jurors heard conflicting medical testimony.
10419
It is hard to reconcile those haunted eyes with the figure who will march confidently towards the ring at the MGM Grand on Saturday, to the sound of his own voice.
10420
'She did the story over the last four to six months on location in the face of ISIS all while suffering from the brutal sexual assault she suffered at the hands of evil forces at play during the Arab Spring.'
10421
President Joko Widodo refused clemency to the men citing a 'drugs emergency' but has the authority to reverse the decision.
10422
And Rodgers revealed the striker did not travel with the squad after a sustaining training ground injury on Friday.
The medical staff have looked at it.
10423
Meanwhile, the Conservatives were also facing difficulties last night after a prominent businessman withdrew his name from a letter of support.
10424
They wrote: 'It is thought that studies involving the use of genome-editing tools to modify the DNA of human embryos will be published shortly .
10425
She said: 'Jeremy will be back on the BBC.
She added that the process of reinventing the show without its main star was 'creatively exciting'.
10426
While in Kent, the Mayor of London warned that a vote for Ukip would be equal to a vote for Ed Miliband .
He is talking up the SNP chances and not taking them on.
10427
There were also leaders like Roy Keane, Gary Neville and David Beckham.
The other teams include Chelsea, Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain and Gerrard’s new club LA Galaxy.
10428
According to Lane's Facebook page, he had been in a relationship with a man named Chuck Tobin.
Tobin, 28, vanished after leaving home last July and his remains were found in November.
10429
She said the detective camera gave amateur photographers the opportunity to capture the true essence of life on Sydney streets, defining it as a ‘real revolution and turning point in photography.’ ‘This was really the beginning of the mass photography you see today.
10430
After the 2013 Boston Bombings, Desisa donated his medal to the city.
Caroline Rotich of Kenya won the women's division after a tense final stretch.
10431
He wouldn’t sue her for child support.
However legal experts told InTouch that it would be unlikely that Loeb will be able to use the embryos without Sofia's consent.
10432
A healthcare worker who recently returned from West Africa has been taken to a hospital after displaying symptoms which could be the deadly Ebola virus.
10433
There has been an explosion in construction business in Turkey in the last 10 years with many new structures bringing different stylistic approaches.
10434
Balotelli tweeted: 'Yeeeees city @aguerosergiokun !!! 1-0 OLD TRAFFORD...Stand up and shut up.'
And with Manuel Pellegrini's side having lost six of their last eight in all competitions the Anfield club maintain a small chance of taking a top four place, even if it isn't at the top of Balotelli's list of priorities.
10435
Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal says that Wayne Rooney suffered a knee injury during the defeat by Everton at Goodison Park on Sunday.
10436
The dancers, which cost around £2,500 to hire, were made out of old car parts and were designed by British artist Giles Walker, with their moves controlled by a computer.
10437
A grand home owned by President Richard Nixon and dubbed the Western White House has been put on sale for $75million.
Henry Kissinger was also one of his guests .
10438
A mummified monk who is believed to have lived for 102 years has become a major tourist attraction after he was put in a crystal display case sitting in the traditional lotus position of prayer.
10439
Inspectors also criticized the FBI and DEA for initially refusing to provide unredacted information requested, and then providing information that was "still incomplete."
10440
The Gamma Phi Beta members later gathered with Ms Randle in front of the house she has been working at for nearly 25 years to pose for a group photo to celebrate the momentous occasion.
10441
The girl later told her mother that she felt guilty because his 10-inch penis was too big for her, so he had to have sex with her mom instead, according to a police report.
10442
Another school investigated, Alston Primary, was already in special measures.
'But although some of them have been removed, the NCTL does not want them to end up anywhere else.'
10443
Conservative vice-chairman Bob Neill said the ‘dangerous’ comments underlined the threat posed by allowing the SNP to share power at Westminster.
10444
Historically, members of these two rival gangs would have killed each other on sight .
Only the most feared and brutally confident inmates within a Level IV prison reach validation status.
10445
But the Russian president lifted the ban after Tehran struck an interim deal with Britain and five other countries to curb nuclear activities in exchange for sanctions relief.
10446
Mick Schumacher made his official pre-season test debut in Formula 4 on Wednesday as he made his first steps towards single-seater racing in 2015.
10447
The teaching union is now working with national drug and alcohol charity, Swanswell, to provide pupils, parents and schools with advice on energy drinks.
10448
Schuller's evangelical Protestant ministry, part of the Reformed Church in America, was a product of modern technology.
And later, he could barely mouth words.'
10449
A video was also released by the coastguard showing two men on a dodgy dingy being transported back to the shore.
It's 100 per cent positive,' he said.
10450
Maung was jailed for 18 months for the attack, which took place in 2012, is currently suspended from practicing and is facing a General Medical Council investigation .
10451
The Rudds were also disappointed when they sold the building block, which overlooks the city and the river, at a significant loss for just $1,751,000.
10452
More than 3,000 . perished.
During the first two months of this year, arrivals were up . 43 per cent versus the same period of 2014, officials have said.
10453
Jose Alberto, 58, was found dead next to a scarecrow prosecutors believe he died while having sex with it .
'It was lying next to the deceased.
10454
Those capped at this level include George Boyd of Burnley, Craig Mackail-Smith of Brighton and Steve Morison of Leeds, who all went on to play at full international level, although not for England.
10455
Leaving the area:
 According to one former robber quoted in a newspaper at the weekend, getting the goods out of the country would be ‘a doddle’.
10456
Ms Van Santen also wants to go on a family holiday on a cruise, have a photo-shoot with her kids, and simply 'make lots of little moments special'.
10457
Dan Williams, a spokesman for the Met Office, said most of Britain basked in sunshine yesterday and will continue to enjoy good weather until Wednesday.
10458
The union has waged a public campaign against Etihad and other United Arab Emirates airlines claiming they 'are well-known in our industry for their discriminatory labour practices and deplorable treatment of female employees'.
10459
Now lusted after by everyone from vampires to werewolves, there must be something in Anna Paquin's blood...
But one with serious sass, style and sex appeal.
10460
The Tory leader was heckled as he addressed party activists and workers from Decorative Panels during a campaign visit to Calder Valley .
10461
A teary-eyed Gisele shared this photo on Instagram revealing the experience of walking the catwalk for the last time and the rousing send-off she received had left her speechless .
10462
The presentation was packed with show stoppers, with sheer metallic fabrics over bodysuits and heady beading on evening gowns.
Stripes in style:
10463
The floating bath sponge: This image shows one of Saturn's outer moons, measuring 255 by 161 miles (410 by 260km). Cassini was around 38,500 miles (62,000 km) from Hyperion when the image was taken .
10464
A spokesman for Police Scotland said: 'It has been the case that some garden sheds in the East Kilbride area have been marked with a cross.
10465
The seven-second video, which is accompanied by Ms Dorman giggling throughout, shows the lar gibbon sneaking across in its enclosure while looking back and forth at the filmmaker.
10466
The red-brick mansion with a neo-classical facade was torn down by the previous owners .
Mr Ward added that his clients’ property affairs were a ‘private matter’.
10467
'It's great to have the club's involvement and support; Tim is a hero and role model to many of our players here today and to have him come down and get involved today with our session is something that they will talk about for weeks on end.'
10468
Barca won the league but at the end of the season, Vilanova announced he was resigning to concentrate on his recovery from the illness.
10469
The Gunners are long-term admirers of Cech and are considering a move for the keeper ahead of next season.
His price will reflect that view.
10470
'As we started to research him as a person, we found that he has the character to bring out the best in those around him.
10471
Castleford's blockbusting Australian winger Justin Carney will be sidelined for up to two months after being told he needs to undergo elbow surgery.
10472
The game will see Allardyce reunited with Leicester manager Nigel Pearson after they worked together at Newcastle United in 2007.
10473
Unfortunate RTC today in the county.'
Police say they are considering pursuing the driver for the Mercedes Atego for a driving offence.
10474
He also said they show he is able to interact with people - important to the role of a politician.
You are not just about politics, but you actually interact with people.
10475
Cardiff release a club statement that Mackay will remain as manager 'for the foreseeable future'.
Cardiff lose 3-0 at home to Southampton, as fans stage a protest against Tan.
10476
It is also understood that all Sunderland staff were called into meetings following Johnson's arrest and warned away from posting anything about it on social media and from speaking to the press.
10477
Front row from left: Francesca, Kerrie and Shirley are taking up the challenge .
'There's lots of support on Twitter with groups such as UK Run Chat.
10478
In some cases, the government will not be able to provide an explanation because of national security concerns.
10479
Friends of Mrs Cox have suggested she should look into getting work for Tommy as a royal look-a-like, some of whom can earn up to £1,000 a day.
10480
Police say the 40-year-old mother was stunned with a Taser and bound with plastic ties before being driven with her son to a house in Fife.
10481
North Charleston police spokesman Spencer Pryor said Wednesday that the department now plans to review Givens' complaint, although he wouldn't say what difference that could make now.
10482
I carried that approach during my career.
Put it this way — I couldn’t have shared a joke with Tim Cahill if he’d scored 30 seconds before half-time like Defoe.
10483
West Bromwich Albion were open to bids of £20million for Berahino in January and the 21-year-old has said he would leave to fulfil his desire to play in Champions League football.
10484
A new study has found that children who ate a diet higher in saturated fats and cholesterol had slower reaction times and a poorer working memory.
10485
The video shows a stream of water running down the road as the debris falls down the slope, indicating the mass of soil is waterlogged.
10486
It was later owned by a Brit and is currently thought to belong to an Italian.
'This car drives beautifully, looks absolutely spectacular, and is ready to delight its next owner.'
10487
Crystal Palace midfielder Jason Puncheon appeared to be struck by an object during his side's 2-1 over Manchester City.
10488
Blackburn's owners Venky's have previously adopted a strong stance on possible outgoings, telling Hull and Crystal Palace that Rhodes and Gestede would be remaining in east Lancashire.
10489
Construction:
Location:
Tom Grilk, the executive director of the Boston Athletic Association, smiles during an interview regarding RunBase .
10490
Abortion rights supporters said the procedure is often the safest for women seeking to terminate pregnancies during the second trimester.
10491
The show portrayed the former Secretary of State as aggressive and driven, saying things like; 'Citizens, you will elect me'
'It's time for her.'
10492
Geoffrey Rush's great uncle, James Thomas Rush, served in the 15th Infantry Battalion of the Australian Army.
He entered the Egypt Theatre of War in November 1914.
10493
Buy 1p copies of the classics online if your shelves are bulging with far too many films (which normally means to have far too much free time, too).
10494
Legendary Barcelona captain Carles Puyol is believed to be training with a view to ending his retirement from football for a lucrative end-of-career spell in Qatar or the United States.
10495
Arnold Breitenbach of St. George wanted to get 'CIB-69' put on a license plate, the Spectrum newspaper of St. George reported.
10496
The officer - known as 'Jock' - allegedly carried out the attacks on women aged from 15 to their early twenties between October 2010 and September 2011 at an Army careers centre in Croydon.
10497
The aspiring celebrity showers her instagram account with photos of herself in glamorous locations .
All I can say is Kim Kardashian, look out!'
10498
For the last week, the whole town have been getting involved in the celebrations.
The reception will be held at Cromlix, which Murray owns.
10499
Of the 189 Premier League matches the Portuguese has overseen, he has an astounding 101 clean sheets, nullifying his rivals in 53.4 per cent of games.
10500
ARSENAL U21: Macey, Bielik (Dobson), Pleguezuelo, Ormonde-Ottewill, O'Connor, Diaby (Mavididi), Wilshere (Kamara), Maitland-Niles, Gnabri, Crowley, Iwobi .
10501
Not so hilarious: The app's description reads, 'Your friends and family will be convinced that you have suffered a painful beating'
Backlash:
10502
'As such, Aaron was assessed by a surgeon who felt that he would have a better outcome with surgery.
Aaron subsequently had surgery yesterday that has gone well.
10503
Created as part of HSE’s Beware Asbestos campaign, the artwork is made up of two huge glass boxes, inside which the messages float around representing a breathing pair of lungs .
10504
The unidentified victim will speak out in tonight's episode of Crimewatch in which she tells reporters she is too scared to sleep for fear of reliving the ordeal in her dreams .
10505
The Watch also went on display in Apple stores across these regions, as well as in Galeries Lafayette in Paris, Isetan in Tokyo, Selfridges in London, and select Apple resellers in Japan and China.
10506
Earlier this year another giant vegetable was found growing in China's Guangdong province in a Shantou village.
This radish was also 33lbs in weight and measured 2ft (60cm) in length.
10507
Mo Farah will race in Birmingham in the first time he's competed in 1,500m since 2013 .
Farah and Greg Rutherford are set to compete at the Anniversary Games at the Olympic Stadium .
10508
It's also not uncommon for exes who are now being nice to each other, to suddenly remember what it was they fell for in the first place and want to try again.
10509
He was accused of threatening to kill a prison guard and his family, and he got into a fight with another inmate.
'He'll probably do fine.
10510
After a 2012 ruling, the federal government is already required to recognize gay marriage in states where they are allowed.
10511
The arrests took place during the school's annual spring concert.
Migos - which formed as a group in 2009 - had contracted with Georgia Southern to perform at the event, the sheriff's office said.
10512
The court heard he had been arrested after using one of the public computers at Hythe library in an attempt to download images.
10513
'During the entire moment of action the camera kept rolling, so despite the completely destroyed drone this still provided some very special images!'
10514
Sarah Jewell, 25, is still living and breathing, a fact she proved when, after the IRS told her to contact her local Social Security office in Sparta, she walked right in and announced 'I'm alive!'
10515
Mabbutt's diabetes had led to a clogged artery in the limb and doctors warned him it was 'touch and go' on whether the leg would have to be amputated.
10516
Toronto Pearson International Airport in Toronto, Canada: £3,461 ($5,200)
Surprisingly, the three most expensive airports for landing fees are in Japan.
10517
Alan Dillon was convicted for the shooting and spent five years behind bars.
Dillon even confessed to the crime, in an attempt to protect his own brother.
10518
Police in Surrey have released CCTV of the two raiders who stripped-off their shirts before attempting to rob the Esso filling station in Town End Caterham, Surrey early last Wednesday evening .
10519
NSW police told Daily Mail Australia that they are still investigating the circumstances surrounding the devastating collision.
10520
Lancashire believes the innings is the highest-ever individual score in a one-day match.
Livingstone's efforts helped Nantwich to compile 579 for seven from their 45 overs.
10521
Mayweather  leaning against a Bentley back in 2013 when he posted the message: 'Enjoying my night' Mayweather doesn't just buy cars for himself, he treated his girlfriend to a new Ferrari .
10522
Following his 2006 release, he claimed he had only admitted to terrorist activities under torture by American intelligence officers and that he had been interrogated by MI5.
10523
Mr Cain poses above with the old photograph.
In a post she said she is also hunting down pictures of Mr Cain's father, Henry, who also died when he was young.
10524
Police say the 'unusual' appeal  is necessary as those photographed may be able to answer questions of the victims' families .
10525
The complaint states that rough waters combined with strong winds caused Viafore’s kayak to overturn.
Last Monday, she asked friends for their prayers as the search continued.
10526
The 19-year-old woman said that during her interview with police after the March 7 incident, officers asked her questions that were 'almost suggestive.'
10527
One in every 17,000 people suffer from the genetic condition.
However, she cherishes the silver lining: 'I see him every day waking up with a smile.'
10528
Model Jesinta Campbell has joined the chorus of angry followers who say they feel let down by Belle Gibson .
Friends then began to cast doubts about her cancer diagnoses.
10529
But he was in a much more jovial mood alongside the supporters of his team on Monday, appearing to share jokes with the fans and happily had his photograph taken with them.
10530
Catania on the other hand look set to end their spell in Italy’s top division as their ninth defeat since January leaves Zdenek Zeman’s side nine points away from safety.
10531
He added: 'Just like all the other times, I'm confident Labour will win.'
Mr Murphy lunges in to tackle his Tory opponent in today's charity game to raise money in the fight against Motor Neurone Disease .
10532
Fed up of your neighbor's dog barking?
Dale and Debra Krein of Rogue River filed a suit in 2012 against their neighbors and their giant Tibetan mastiffs.
10533
These two Australian dogs have got talent!
Aoki told the website in January 2015: 'I only use positive reinforcement in the training that I do.
10534
Edgar never included her in any financial discussion but after his death, she became the ‘stock witch’, cleverly quadrupling the value of the estate over twenty years.
10535
Some Bradford supporters believe the victims should be remembered in this way, others prefer it to keep it private.
His findings will disturb the peace in Bradford.
10536
The 'looping lightning' image was taken by  Scott Murray and the bolt appears to shot out and up from the cloud before curving towards the Earth.
10537
So the farewell tour will fizzle out rather than end with a bang.
Liverpool squander a 3-0 lead against Crystal Palace to see their title hopes suffer a further blow that they would not recover from.
10538
A file picture reveals the Crew Rest Department on board a Boeing 777 .
Pilots have their own separate sleeping quarters, such as this one, on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner .
10539
A high shelf in the hallway holds original tins of produce from yesteryear, including Cadbury’s Marvel dried milk, Tate and Lyle sugar and Colman’s Mustard.
10540
2. SAVVY SHOPPING:
9. GO TO THE GROWER:
12.
SOMETHING BORROWED:
What sounds like such a simple tip will actually bring the cost down a lot.
10541
Germanwings said passengers flew to Milan on a different aircraft on Sunday night while the searched plane has now been cleared for air traffic.
10542
Eriksen says the lure of Europa League football was important in his decision to join Spurs back in 2013 .
A lot of players want to be in Europe.
10543
'I stalk you on Facebook', another states, priced at £16.95 ($25.35).
'It can also mean disturbing emails, non-stop phone calls, creepy letters and social media abuse.
10544
This is an opportunity for people to enjoy very good food, and for a reasonable price.’
They will also be able to choose dishes based on their nutritional content.
10545
McWhirter appeared at Aberdeen Sheriff Court yesterday where she admitted wasting police time with false rape claims.
Police then began investigating her claims.
10546
Once the defense rests, each side will deliver a closing argument.
A final jury of 12 members will decide Hernandez's fate.
10547
Allardyce feels Pearson has received unfair criticism recently after a series of controversies, including grabbing Crystal Palace's James McArthur by the throat during a match and losing his cool at a reporter during a press conference.
10548
Mr. Tanswell says the Liberal Democrats have put out the leaflet to 'stitch him up'.
'I don't know who the death threats are coming from but the police are investigating it now.
10549
Daisy (pictured) was lucky to have a few nit-free years in her early twenties but didn't escape the parasites entirely as they returned when she had children .
10550
I am really happy I found a way through.
Berdych approaches the net to play the volley as the Czech sets up a rematch with Andy Murray .
10551
Australian Rugby Union chief executive Bill Pulver told Daily Mail Australia in a statement that the loss of Mr Tooth was 'incredibly sad'.
10552
So hot right now: Ed Miliband's looks proved a hit with Twitter users during last night's debate .
A viewer finds herself enjoying the sight of Mr Miliband's saturnine looks .
10553
Earlier this year, Get Rid of Sids Project ran into controversy when it invited Dr Tenpenny to speak at a number of seminars across Australia.
10554
Safe: Parents carry their babies down the steps from the Italian rescue ship after arriving in a Sicilian harbour .
We're the closest country to Libya,' she said.
10555
Days later, he wrote an obituary announcing her death.
'She fought her addiction to heroin for at least five years and had experienced a near fatal overdose before.
10556
Saige, five, who's from the US, concludes the passionate rant by declaring she will move out and stay with her mum's best friend: 'I'm moving on, I'm going to Jenn's!'
10557
The other problem was the mistakes we made.
'It is a complicated result but we will take a shot at it in the return leg and we will not give up that easily.'
10558
However, more tests are planned this week.
Scans have revealed that Walker has not broken his foot and will hopefully return to action for Spurs soon .
10559
Memories Pizza in Walkerton faced criticism this week after co-owner Crystal O'Connor expressed support for a new Indiana religious objections law.
10560
On the day of the theft, his father had told him his mother had been diagnosed with skin cancer and that had ‘worried him a lot’.
10561
Experts found the giant U.S. ship - which could incredibly still have a plane inside it - standing upright and listing only slightly.
Discovery:
10562
Goal-line technology was required to confirm the goal after Esteban Cambiasso cleared.
Baggies striker Saido Berahino wore Astle's No 9 shirt during the Premier League match at The Hawthorns .
10563
However, the baby is expected to make more of an impact in the long term - especially if the child turns out to be a girl.
Prince of Sales:
10564
The first crews arrived at 1.48am and initially tried to unlock the door.
Part of Havelock Street, in Cardiff, was closed for the emergency services to access the building.
10565
The cruise operator was served with a short-term closure order, preventing the vessel going back on the water for 72 hours.
10566
'Loneliness maps' are being used to tackle the problem of elderly people being left alone by working out which areas' residents are most at risk.
10567
Nicholas James Langan, 24, from Townsville, was arrested about 1.00am on January 27 at a beach in Canggu, north of Kuta, for smoking a marijuana joint.
10568
His American client, who was also present, has not been identified.
Ivory tusks are some of the most prized treasures hunters can get, enraging animal rights supporters .
10569
The local community is set to be a part of the vision of the project too.
To donate to the Thames Bath Lido, click here.
10570
On her first birthday, Millie-Belle smiled with her designer purse next to her fancy dolls.
And on the right, Millie-Belle is ready to shop with her Louis Vuitton purse .
10571
Neckless:
Soft summer:
Models in the pastel collection replaced bows with flowers but keeping to their slick buns as seen throughout.
Black tie:
10572
This is to focus on security and counter terrorism and was said to involve a downscaling of military activity.
10573
Yesterday her barrister Simon Burns said she had now abandoned that claim and fully accepted her responsibility.
10574
Both occurred after about 12 years of marriage and Henthorn, pictured here with his first wife, Rishell, told wildly varying stories about both deaths.
10575
Le Postcard is a collaborative project, which depicts the luxe travel habits of some of the most influential jetsetters around the world .
10576
A controversial US pastor has defended trying to buy a $65million private jet with worshippers' donations and responded to critics by claiming 'the devil is trying to discredit' him.
10577
After its revival in 2004, complete with large, comfy seats and a full wine and snack menu, it has received great plaudits and opens with new titles most days and nights.
10578
But now they have set a limit on the number of ‘likes’ a user can perform in one day - which seems to be set at 100.
But different users are reporting the app is asking for different amounts.
10579
A video uploaded by YouTube user shkesi shows a baby girl mesmerized by the mothering hen .
After the show is over, the baby's big sister asks if she would like to see it again .
10580
Burton secured promotion to Sky Bet League One after Lucas Akins scored both goals in their 2-1 win at Morecambe.
10581
The big Fijian won the green jacket in 2000 but may not have hit a finer shot than this one during the annual par-three tournament on the Wednesday before the 2009 edition.
10582
Bonnett told the Times-Picayune that restitution for damages to the boat will be pursued in court.
He was arrested and stripped of his commission .
10583
She revealed her pet had been was rescued from the Bryn-y-Maen animal shelter in Colwyn Bay when he was a kitten and was living with her parents when he disappeared.
10584
George and Amal (left) about to enter the Cavalli Palace (right), where they married - it has incredible views over the city's Grand Canal .
10585
But Skrtel's agent Karol Csonto has confirmed it's unlikely the 30-year-old will leave Anfield as he prepares to finalise a new contract.
10586
But the weapon malfunctioned, saving Gonzalez's life, and Reed was later sentenced to 66 years in prison, the Inquirer reports.
10587
There is also the option to add recipes, after which the app will calculate the quantity of ingredients needed for the correct number of servings.
10588
But the cheeky Brazilian had used the typically Argentine/Uruguayan expression ‘dale’ in reference to his two team-mates.
‘I am struggling to remember any game with so many beautiful goals.’
10589
Patrice Evra believes Juventus called upon quintessential Italian traits in securing their route to the Champions League semi-finals, describing the Sere A side's defeat of Monaco as  'ugly'.
10590
He is the alleged to have sent a ransom note to a local restaurant, himself and an email to police demanding money for her safe return.
10591
Nationally, the SPLC said in its 'The Year in Hate and Extremism' report, which was published online this spring, that there were a total 784 active hate groups in the US.
10592
'Let's hope the prosecutors choose not to waste any more resources on what has been nothing more than a frivolous trophy-hunt and a complete waste of taxpayer dollars.'
10593
She said  the photo obeyed the state's laws that requires people remove their glasses and wear a religious headpiece that does not cover their face, create shadows, or display text or logos.
10594
New York City FC forward Villa is enjoying life in the Big Apple and has been named club captain .
10595
The Carnival Spirit has 2500 passengers on board, stranded outside of Sydney Harbour because of the city's wild weather .
10596
GOOOOOOALLLLLL
lovely
assist
.
Meanwhile, the Manchester United forward will reportedly be offered £5million to leave Old Trafford in the summer.
10597
The 45-year-old was in the US working as a research professor and director at the prestigious US Naval War College in Rhode Island.
10598
And I still often tell him that I’d like to spend some time alongside him, to see how his days unfold.
But his book does not undermine the importance of education — far from it.
10599
The dialogue between PSG and Depay represents a threat to the Premier League clubs with the Qatari-backed French club understood to have made a significantly better financial offer than Liverpool.
10600
The problem with that is a decent chunk of Arsenal’s supporters feel he doesn’t deserve much.
Wenger added: ‘The regret I have is that he wanted to leave here.
10601
His throw was intercepted by Willian which led to Chelsea's winner, though.
Jonathan Walters (left) had little joy for Stoke against Chelsea on Saturday, despite his hard work .
10602
If we can get a group of Manchester-born lads into the first team then that's the ideal scenario.
Solanke (left) has been in prolific form for Chelsea both at home and abroad this season .
10603
De Boinville is the only one of the duo riding on Tuesday with two mounts –Rusty Nail and Taylor – at Exeter.
The season ends at Sandown on Saturday.
10604
It's just bizarre,' she says.
She explains that she finally realized that 'the guys shoot and miss all the time - most of the time - and they get better.
10605
Sandridge was then told cancer had been found in her stomach.
She underwent a second during which the tumor itself and further cells were scrapped.
10606
So just sayin' can get you buried will quick,' Depp says.
Jack Nicholson's character in the Oscar-winning film The Departed is thought to be loosely based on Bulger.
10607
'Thanks to the Internet, parenting books and the NHS, my head is filled with so much advice that I am already struggling to listen to my maternal instincts.
10608
UEFA has opened disciplinary proceedings against the Georgian Football Federation over the incidents .
Georgia are fifth, with just one win from five games.
10609
Mums said they asked friends and relatives for specific practical gifts for the second child rather than relying on chance, which cut down on presents that were never used.
10610
Fire crews were sent to tackle the fire and spent an hour trying to douse the flames from the vehicle .
10611
Not since the 1950 has a previous Liverpool manager  gone three campaigns without a trophy, but that is the unwanted fate that will meet the 42-year-old at the end of this term.
10612
In a chilling twist the victim was left bleeding to death in a gutter because the a medical centre just 300 feet away was closed for the day because the doctor who worked there was also a foreigner and feared becoming a victim of a xenophobic attack himself .
10613
Firefighters were then called and they were forced to chisel through the wall in order to free Marv, who was stuck .
play video .
I'm in the process of trying to fix the hole in his garage.'
He was a little shaken after his ordeal and stayed inside for a day or two, but he was otherwise unharmed.
10614
It has a genteel moat/canal, which encircles the historic centre.
More information on travel in The Netherlands at www.holland.com.
10615
He said if a letter did show up, it was important to seek legal advice.
The ruling means the Hollywood studio can now go after each individual to claim compensation.
10616
The truck was stolen from the victim on the man's birthday.
Wade told WBRC the driver crashed the vehicle and was ejected as the truck rolled over.
10617
The second-ranked girls defeated the women of the University of California -Los Angeles by a score of 4 - 3 for the win.
The USC women's tennis team won the PAC-12 championship on Thursday .
10618
The group explored the historic church .
The Kardashian entourage arrived from a high-profile visit to Armenia, where the Kardashian family traces its roots.
10619
In an interview on US television, he sparked outrage by suggesting that incidents like Mrs McConville’s murder happened ‘in every single conflict’.
10620
Tyson may have featured in more of the top fights, but it's Mayweather who is currently sitting pretty at the top of the pile after his pay-per-view 12-round fight against Alvarez in September, 2013 saw the American collect a total close to $140m (£91m).
10621
Wolff's remark also comes in the wake of Nico Rosberg's moaning over the team radio during Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix about how slow team-mate Lewis Hamilton was driving.
10622
She was described as a ‘free spirit’ who started following Mr Adusah’s church around two years ago.
Mr Adusah has not requested consular assistance.’
10623
Mr Elferink threatened: ‘If parents don’t want to see their children in care then they need to get off the grog and head back to their home community.’
10624
'Our rescue team found many hens in urgent need of veterinary attention, who were clearly not receiving any care.'
10625
It was revealed that competitors had an unwanted guest during their heat with a small shark cruising through .
10626
was last night at the centre of a race row after text messages were sent to Asian voters in a key marginal constituency urging them to cast their postal ballots for ‘all Asian candidates’.
10627
Earlier this month, he moved to Oregon to live with Ms Fox, according to a report from the Marion County Sheriff's Office.
10628
He says it would be a 'dream' to join a top club like Spurs and would relish the challenge of English football .
On the ball he is very calm, not rushed.
He has it all.'
10629
John Carver looks on as his Newcastle United struggle against rivals Sunderland in the Tyne-Wear derby .
The problems at Newcastle run from top to bottom.
10630
Rotherham have a serious fight on their hands to avoid relegation from the Championship after they were deducted three points for fielding an ineligible player.
10631
One person who saw the film, which was shared on Twitter and Instagram, said Mr Hart was unaware he was being filmed at first.
I'm disappointed for him.
10632
In an eight page interview, the minister from Sydney’s exclusive suburb of Point Piper confirmed rumours that he had planned to run for Prime Minister if Tony Abbott had been successfully toppled in February's leadership spill.
10633
Rustemi tried to argue that Mr Doyle had been the 'aggressor' during the incident, but police took statements from a number of schoolchildren witnesses who said the opposite .
10634
But the signs suggest he is on course to play a part during England's World Cup warm-up period ahead of the tournament kicking off in mid-September.
10635
Almost all the highly secretive officials overseeing the day-to-day running of the Islamic State (pictured) are former members of Saddam Hussein's Baathist army .
10636
However, the joint investigation between the CDC and Baylor College of Medicine concluded the man likely contracted the disease over a decade before moving to the U.S.
It indicated conclusively the man suffered from vCJD.
10637
Recent attacks in India have resulted in street protests with many calling for more protection for women .
Her death led to protests throughout India and outraged the world.
10638
The women say they are shocked and overwhelmed at the support their photos have garnered online, after each documented their pregnancy .
10639
The 50-year-old has suffered a torrid time since replacing Alan Pardew as head coach at St James' Park until at least the end of the season.
10640
The new bill will apply to both traditional cigarettes and electronic cigarettes (file photo)
you come back and you're 20 years old and you can't have a cigarette,' Riviere said.
10641
Inspired by their widower billionaire father Jeff, (a stalwart of the original series but missing in this) they live on Tracy Island in the middle of the South Pacific in 2065.
10642
Brentford boss Mark Warburton was delighted with his Brentford side's win over local rivals Fulham .
It keeps us going.
You saw it at the Leeds game.
10643
But if the players were injured, why didn't the manager inform the chairman?
'I am 58 and my dream is still for us to do something big here.
10644
Officers were seen running around armed with lassos as they attempted to catch the stray Shetland foal.
Close encounter:
Caught on camera:
10645
She added: 'I had this feeling of horror.
She just said he was on the cycle path.
A Cambridgeshire police spokesman said they were also called to the incident.
10646
The severed leg was buried behind the house and its grave became a tourist attraction.
Sadly it is no more, but you can see his wooden limb in the museum.
10647
Aidan Turner has been signed up for a second series of BBC period drama Poldark .
But it is the scenes featuring Turner in a state of undress which sent them into the biggest frenzy.
10648
Eight AA batteries power the laser motor and the gun's turret is powered by four ball bearings controlled by a mechanism under the gun.
10649
Stunning scenery:
The girls were pushed to extreme heights as they climbed up the mountain path in central China while wearing high heels .
10650
Moore will be sentenced on Friday in a Sydney court .
A bank spokeswoman told News Corp that incidents like Moore's were rare and happened due to a 'human error'.
10651
It is believed he was then told of Monty's arrest and later handed himself in.
Naunihal handed himself in to police the following day where he told an officer that the police ‘had the wrong man’.
10652
After an evenly-contested opening half hour, Sociedad took the lead through a Xabi Prieto penalty strike in the 31st minute.
10653
The SAM car is a collaborative venture between Arrow Electronics, Inc., Freescale® Semiconductor, Schmidt Peterson Motorsports and Conquer Paralysis Now, according to Business Wire.
10654
South Korean police charged Lippert's attacker with attempted murder.
North Korea previously called the attack 'deserved punishment' but denied any role in it.
10655
Henri Morris, 67, was jailed for 10 years after admitting drugging a female employee during a business trip in order to take naked photos of her .
10656
She first stumbled upon the uncanny phenomenon after buying the oranges from her local Woolworths.
I am not going to feed my kids something like that.
They said a sample of the oranges has been sent to a molecular biology laboratory for further analysis.
Experts have voiced their bewilderment at the images of the discoloured fruit.
10657
The Welsh schoolboy is believed to have got lost in the woods pictured above .
Police last night said Carwyn’s body is ready to be repatriated but his family remained in the Alps.
10658
I couldn't accept I was going to die'
The charity is supporting clinical trials into the use of the drug and a synthetic cannabinoid to treat the disease.
10659
Simply click on your team  in the fixture list below to find out who is ruled out and who is making a return as well as all the key statistics surrounding your club's fixture.
10660
Plaintiff Farryn Johnson has said the Baltimore restaurant where she worked had an issue with her blonde highlights.
The arbitrator's decision in the case was 'adverse and flawed,' Hooters said.
10661
The sudden rise in the ethnic minority population marks an increase on predictions from the same university just five years ago.
10662
He was one of the nicest blokes you could know.
His team-mates went on to secure a 4-1 victory at the ground (pictured) against Mangotsfields Sports, not realising their fellow player had been fatally injured .
10663
John Carver says his Newcastle players have a point to prove when they face Liverpool on Monday .
We talked about out-working the opposition but they out-worked us again.
10664
Michal Duris (right) of Slovakia and Marek Suchy of the Czech Republic contest a header .
Jan Durica (left) shakes hands with Tomas Necid at the end of the friendly match .
10665
The letter has haunted Labour for years, allowing Tory and Liberal Democrat ministers to prove the nation's coffers were empty.
10666
Their interim plan is to cut the number of peers to 450.
A spokesman for Mr Alexander said the plan for a peerage was ‘complete, total, utter nonsense’.
10667
Fronted by captain Jamie Heaslip, Leinster are armed with international experience and had 11 players in the Ireland squad who beat England last month.
10668
After the block was lifted journalism group Turkish Press Council said that while it understands the authorities concerns over the publication of the prosecutors' photographs, banning social media sites is in conflict with democracy.
10669
In February, lawyers for the victims told the High Court in Belfast that MI5 was aware of the abuse but allowed it to continue to protect those responsible from prosecution.
10670
Ganci said that she had attended the wedding of Townsend and his wife.
A judge has settled the final amount owed by US Limousine and Townsend at more than $700,000.
10671
West Ham United's Winston Reid tackles Tottenham Hotspur's Mousa Dembele during a 2-2 Premier League clash at White Hart Lane in February .
10672
The writer twice assaulted the girl in the 1980s.
Shearing has been ordered to register as a sex offender.
10673
Some dogs were found alive at the restaurant and were taken away by a local vet .
Officers later saw the owner decapitating and butchering a dog in the back alley.
10674
Zwelithini's speech last month is said to be the cause of the violence which has turned the streets into a battleground, sending foreigners running for the safety of special camps .
10675
While Mr Honna was driving the car, his mate Mr Rose was filming the menacing incident on his phone.
10676
He said: 'The original decision was a mistake and it should be reversed.'
The political row over how to tackle the crisis was sparked after 950 men, women and children drowned this week.
10677
Bob Arum has revealed that the contracts for the mega fight next weekend have yet to be signed .
But Leonard Ellerbe, CEO of Mayweather Promotions, disagreed with Arum.
10678
The superstar athlete has been to the White House before.
He is pictured here with the then-US Senator and rival quarterback Donovan McNabb in 2005 .
10679
The college senior told Daily Mail that police have located one suspicious package that was described as being 'larger than a purse.'
10680
Investigators believe Stephen died in August 2012 and Stoni died the following May.
Blair then made the teen 'put Stoni in the deep freezer following her death,' the agency said.
10681
According to official government figures, Stratford District Council was in the top ten councils for recycling and composting for the second year running.
10682
'The site is a insult to every soldier who served his country, some who have never come back,' said one Facebook user .
10683
Subs not used: Butland, Bardlsey, Sidwell, Crouch.
Mark Noble looked the most likely candidate and when he stepped over the ball it seemed to leave goalkeeper Asmir Begovic confused.
10684
A desperate search for Luke in the park was mounted after he disappeared from the campground on Friday.
The couple vowed to take him back to the campground for more holidays.
10685
Burnley have benefitted from the American audience taking an interest in the Premier League, says Lee Hoos .
It’s a sea change’.
That’s the bar set.
10686
My shore excursions on a dash around the Mediterranean include a coach tour through Corsica's snowy mountains above Ajaccio, where we sample wild boar meat.
10687
Two months later, the decision was taken to turn off the machine and he was pronounced dead.
She is responsible for that death.'
10688
The motoring programme was also set to make around £7.35million in sales of tickets to its 14 live shows in the UK this year.
10689
But it is worth recording that he has been charged with falsely (according to the government) accusing coalition forces in Yemen – including Bahrain – of promoting ethnic cleansing by targeting women, children and religious structures.
10690
And yet another wore a waistcoat open to reveal her front .
The model's modesty was protected by high-waisted black underwear and black pasties over her nipples.
10691
'Just look at the two par fives on the back nine on Sunday,' he said.
It will be fun to watch him.'
As for McIlroy, he knows where he needs to improve.
10692
The 2005 winner moved a step closer to an elusive second title in Sheffield with a 13-8 victory, sealed with a 67 break.
10693
A warrant was issued for Hamm's arrest in 1992 but the actor reached a plea deal with authorities in 1995 and the charges were dismissed.
10694
'I was due to pick her up on the Tuesday.
Her family have now launched an appeal to raise money for Guide Dogs for the Blind as a tribute to her .
10695
'She was smart, funny, witty, beautiful,' Jacob Anderson, one of Finley's ex-husbands, told ABC News.
Trust was everything I had, and now I don't.'
10696
Cle 'Bone' Sloan (left) told police Suge Knight (right) growled 'I'll kill you' before 'everything went black'.
Knight has pleaded not guilty.
10697
Chelsea will make a late decision on whether Diego Costa will play in Saturday's match with Stoke.
Conversely, Diego Costa’s 19 PL goals have only earned Chelsea eight points.
10698
She added that he has caused 'suffering and obvious pain' to Ms Hudson.
'Because of the state he was in he wasn’t able to accept the help of his family and friends.'
10699
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said the admission exposed the threat posed by an SNP-Labour alliance.
He is trying to boost the SNP.
10700
However, Begiristain would also expect to answer questions about the recruitment of players last summer such as Eliaquim Mangala for £35million and Fernando for £13m, neither of whom has made an impact.
10701
'The track was also rough and hot, which is hard for tyres, and we're fortunate the car goes well on its tyres.
Hamilton celebrates his win in Australia .
10702
Rating: .
The hotel is a two-minute walk from Mistley station which has services to London Liverpool Street .
We kick off with nibbles that include a stupendous olive tapenade.
10703
Fans of the film series are buying up big to wear the clothing at the early screenings.
Fans of the series are buying up big hoping to wear the outfits at early screenings .
10704
Sukuraman's sister, Brintha, is supported as she is escorted through the crowd towards the port gates to say what could be the final goodbye on Tuesday .
10705
Family members of Jones and Fleming didn't return calls seeking comment this week.
Gary police found Fleming's wallet in an apartment complex where Jones' sister lived.
10706
In the US, the same model costs $349, but this doesn't include sales tax.
And Apple’s price discrepancy doesn’t just apply to its own store.
10707
FBI director James Comey, pictured at a news conference last month,  has caused huge offense to a U.S. ally by using language to suggest that Poles were accomplices in the Holocaust .
10708
Jesus Christ, man down.'
Despite the shocking footage of the crash, Marana Police Chief Terry Rozema has defended Officer Rapiejko's actions.
10709
Columbus Dispatch reported that a note found nearby confirmed that the husband and wife had made a suicide pact.
They were later found wandering outside.
10710
The earthquake caused a 'sharp jolt' to be felt in the San Fernando Valley (pictured) north of Los Angeles .
Residents on social media described it as a 'quick jolt'.
10711
The midfielder has been linked with a move away from Old Trafford as a result, but speculation about his future could be squashed following his latest tattoo.
10712
'We wish them all the best for their future together and if you feel inspired by Laura and Paul why not take part in one of our others sports events - you don’t need to do 26 miles to help beat cancer sooner.'
10713
TV rights were believed to be a major stumbling block in negotiations as Matchroom are tied to Sky Sports, while Frampton’s recent title defence against Chris Avalos attracted millions of viewers between ITV in the UK and UTV Ireland.
10714
Other events such as the Coachella and Lollapalooza music festivals also have banned the photo aids.
The Hermitage in Amsterdam . Lollapalooza Music Festival in Chicago .
10715
The trio admitted that all their families find their situation bizarre but all are supportive because they know they are so happy and in love.
10716
Depay's former international manager Louis van Gaal is said to be in the race to sign the 21-year-old and Brands has openly admitted that his side are resigned to losing the Dutch international.
10717
There are teams around us who are having an awkward time and maybe they feel the next matches more than us.
I know if our performances are right, we will win games.
10718
Sunderland boss Dick Advocaat congratulates Defoe as he sends on Adam Johnson to replace the striker during the Wear-Tyne derby victory .
‘I’m proud of the team and I’m proud of our fans.’
10719
Forecasters said 57 million people were at an 'enhanced risk' of seeing storms nearby, including residents in Chicago, Detroit and St. Louis, as well as those in Memphis, Tennessee, and Little Rock, Arkansas .
10720
Bloody footprints lead out of the house where the four-year-old girl foundher parents shot in a murder-suicide .
10721
Ilze points at the winding road that she and Pablo had climb in Spain's Sierra Nevada with their 130kg of gear (including bicycles)
Most expensive .
10722
Home:
The Cleggs were seen drinking white wine and cooking paella in the kitchen of their home as they chatted about their family life .
10723
Tim has been in England since he was 17.
Wijnaldum (right) says he speaks to Holland international team-mates Leroy Fer and Tim Krul about England .
10724
He spoke out in support of new Lib Dem candidate in Gordon, Christine Jardine.
Mr Clegg blamed Labour's failings for the current political landscape in Scotland.
10725
Maybe Ian Poulter could borrow Rose’s pencil after a disappointing day in which his putter couldn’t get going.
He said on Twitter: ‘Really disappointed.
10726
The match will be played to a conclusion when it resumes on Thursday evening.
Evans is taking on Doherty in a World Championship qualifier and he took the opening frame 71-15 .
10727
The Hammersmith-born boxer took to Instagram on Saturday to reveal his winning bet on Jack to win by a points decision or via a technical one.
It was a tough start to my career, but now I'm a world champ.'
Groves will fight  Jack for the WBC world super-middleweight title as he is the mandatory challenger .
10728
The aim of DiCaprio and his partners is to rehabilitate the ecosystem of the area.
Private island:
San Pedro is a known vacation spot in Belize.
10729
In progress: Nathan said, 'I never went to the gym at the beginning because I had no confidence, so for the first month it was purely diet'
10730
Kamleh was known to practice medicine in Adelaide, Mackay and finally in Perth before he took up working for IS .
He claims to be sad he delayed travelling to Syria for so long.
10731
A draw here at Prescot Cables means automatic promotion will become only an outside possibility.
Gary Neville takes up the story.
It’s just real.
10732
Hamilton, pictured driving during final practice in Malaysia, says the last Grand Prix was a 'tough weekend' He won last year in China and will be hoping for more joy in Shanghai this weekend .
10733
Breaks of 76, 87, 51 and 79 helped Barry Hawkins to a 5-3 triumph over Stephen Maguire and a clash with Gary Wilson, a convincing 5-1 winner over Dechawat Poomjaeng.
10734
He took another photo of the 2-foot model and cut out the boat's image, glued it onto the photo of his brother, then used dirt and glue to create the illusion of a photo faded by age and stained by water or chemicals.
10735
Nick Clegg today continued his tour of 60 seats where the party is defending perilous majorities or hope to make gains, stopping off in Eastleigh in Hampshire .
10736
Ms Dodds said Ms Bines contacted her asking if she could share her recipes online with her Facebook fan base and she agreed.
Ashy's book:
10737
David spent nine days in hospital after his operation, returning now only for check-ups and once for the smaller procedure to reshape his tongue.
10738
David Starkey also hit out at Baroness Doreen Lawrence (pictured), for following what he claimed was the approach of US civil rights leaders after Martin Luther King's death by 'treating blacks as victims'
10739
'Maybe that's the case that those changes open a door,' said Tremlett of Downton's ECB exit.
'But from Surrey's point of view we're all hoping he gets out there and scores big runs.'
10740
Perhaps the trendy construction engineer can convince a new generation of bakers to attempt this hearty cake.
For the cake: . For the pistachio marzipan: . Method: . 1.
10741
Harrowing:
This left her  feeling like a bad mother, and was the start of a series of triggers she says lead to 'episode depression.'
Value:
10742
Last month the West Indies opener posted 'I'm not leaving' alongside an Instagram video of himself singing along with an amused singer in Sydney after rejecting speculation that he will quit international cricket.
10743
Gareth Bale is Real’s biggest absentee.
Should Javier Hernandez play, it will be the Mexican's first big-game start since joining Real Madrid .
10744
'So once she was legally permitted to drive on her own, she gets in her car.'
First Lady Michelle Obama and Food Network chef Rachel Ray are seen together in February 2013 .
10745
Argentina has now written to the UN about British 'aggression' Mr Fallon said last week that existing defences in the Falklands would be modernised, with investment in ‘ageing infrastructure’ and an upgrade of the surface-to-air missile system.
10746
Thank you!’
Spieth kisses his girlfriend Annie Verret following his record-breaking title win on Sunday .
10747
Oblak did a great job,' said Real Madrid boss Ancelotti.
'The hit with Ramos happened without him meaning to, so let's speak nothing more of it.'
10748
Chourdary made headlines last month when it emerged he had been invited to speak at the Oxford Union despite being on police bail on suspicion of being a member of a banned terror group.
10749
Nataliya Lutsyshyna (left) was whisked on a romantic getaway with the chef.
‘Debbie has been on the scene for years,’ adds a source.
10750
A study of 40 men and women found drinking a glass of wine makes you more attractive to the opposite sex... ...but too much booze leads to 'excessive and unattractive' changes in facial expressions, like Bridget Jones .
10751
Previous projects have included an 'anti anorexia' campaign featuring skeletal drawings of style icons Kate Moss and Alexa Chung, and a collection of famous female cartoon characters suffering the effects of domestic violence.
10752
It came  amid wider chaos pitting Shiite rebels against forces loyal to the exiled president and a Saudi-led air campaign.
10753
He has scored one more than Harry Kane .
Along with David de Gea, the 25-year-old Hammers defender is the only man to have played every minute of the campaign.
10754
Onlookers were shocked by the actions of the wallaby but it looks like there's no bad blood between the two native Australian's as they both continued happily grazing in the area straight after the encounter.
10755
Sources familiar with Gloriavale, such as Miracle - one of Neville Cooper's ten children - discussed the challenges of adjusting to life outside the commune in general terms to Daily Mail Australia.
10756
Abducted teen Billy-Anne Huxton has reportedly made contact with a family member .
Detective Acting Inspector Steve Windsor said guns could be involved in the abduction.
10757
The hypothesis claims the moon is debris left over following an indirect collision between our planet and an astronomical body approximately 4.5 billion years ago.
10758
The relationship between Klopp and bosses Watzke and sport manager Michael Zorc has become increasingly strained.
11/2 - Real Madrid .
10759
'It wouldn’t be a step backwards for Oscar to go to Juventus.
He’d be decisive in Serie A and whether he plays for Juventus or Chelsea it’ll always be a great club.'
10760
Ms Hughes then informed her about a panel hearing to determine the dog's fate, before participating in it and helping to draw up the final reasons, Mr Kendall said.
10761
As Mr Bell crouched with Mr Tretheway, he was struck and killed.
She was sentenced to 14 months imprisonment, suspended for two years, and banned from driving for 18 months.
10762
'I am surprised with their level and we will need two good games to reach the semi-finals,' said Bayern coach Pep Guardiola.
Their individual quality.'
10763
The mother-of-three will compete in the entertainment performance category at next month’s awards with Ant and Dec, Graham Norton and Celebrity Juice host Leigh Francis.
10764
He hasn't documented their previous appearances, but does post photos from the crane quite often.
He has found their 'evidence' before .
10765
An estimated 100,000 homes are without power on Tuesday morning across Sydney, the Central Coast and Hunter region.
FRIDAY .
SATURDAY .
10766
The Deghayes brothers while they were young.
He said his sons had been 'stubborn' about travelling to Syria after seeing videos of the atrocities online.
10767
And Gwyneth Paltrow only eats 'good' food after discovering that she suffered from allergies and was feeling low in energy.
Healthy meals galore!
10768
Mr Clegg's wife Mirian said he deserves another chance at being in power after suffering the wrath of voters since becoming Deputy PM in 2010 .
10769
A pit crew member was hit by a car on Sunday during the inaugural IndyCar Grand Prix of Louisiana.
Dracone did not finish the race and wound up 23rd.
10770
As the coyote nodded off, it was then collared.
'When we felt it was safe enough, we used our animal noose to capture the animal,' he said.
10771
Weinstein's wife Elaine has said the US government's reaction to his plight following his capture in Lahore, Pakistan, in 2011 was 'inconsistent and disappointing'.
10772
On Tuesday, the Richard family revisited the finish line to take part in a memorial.
The Richards aren't the first to speak out against the death penalty in Tsarnaev's high-profile trial.
10773
Roberto Martinez will hold talks with Romelu Lukaku after the striker’s new agent suggested he could leave Everton as soon as this summer.
10774
The structure was overhauled in 1962 to make way for what is the former Norwich Union building.
Another image of Sleep Street in Bristol.
10775
He asked the magistrates to show her mercy and give her a suspended sentence for the ‘dreadful error of judgment’.
Gregory declined to comment after the hearing.
10776
Speaking of the sale, Mr Dardouna said: 'I did not know that it was this valuable.
Mr Khaled agreed to show reporters the mural on condition that its location not be revealed.
10777
When Johansen picked him out 30 yards from goal, he glided away from three challenges before lashing a shot into the side-netting.
10778
The petition: The move comes in response to an online petition posted on the White House website following the death of 17-year-old Leelah Alcorn with over 120,000 signatures .
10779
Rhiannon's $5,190 'Bangkok Nose Job' package included a stay in a Phuket beach hotel .
Her trip to Thailand is a $5,190 'Bangkok Nose Job' package with CosMediTour.
10780
The claim was widely reported by newspapers, while the BBC ran a headline on its website stating: 'Food banks used by "more than one million people".'
10781
‘The fight will be won and lost on the ropes,’ said Roach.
Roach, who has trained Pacquiao for 15 years, says the Filipino is in the best shape of his life .
10782
Lizzi joined the gym and began hourglass training and says that she is now addicted to fitness .
'Now I can spend more time with the kids.'
10783
Senegal (35 goals), Scotland (28) and Ivory Coast (22) come next on the list, with Holland (19), Brazil (18), the Republic of Ireland (18) and Chile (17) - helped by the goalscoring form of Alexis Sanchez - further down.
10784
Ms Prosser later told reporters that she challenged Mr Cameron because she wanted people to question ‘the 1 per cent at the top’ who she claimed were not working in the country's interests .
10785
The five-time world snooker champion is looking for another title this week at the Crucible .
And when asked about replacing Clarkson, he told The Times: 'I'd love to have that job.
10786
After Ms Sevilla's appeal was unsuccessful, her and her son will be deported within 28 days .
She says it is the only place he knows, and he only knows English .
10787
'It is more difficult because when you are walking you can maybe do a little dance but, in a wheelchair, you're a little more limited.
10788
It is thought the Regency home could now attract A-list buyers as the secluded grounds offer residents complete privacy.
Above, the estate's swimming pool .
10789
Only one club falls into independent hands: Bradford West, which holds Valley Parade, voted Respect leader George Galloway as their MP in a 2012 by-election.
10790
We lost a world-class player and lots of other developments happened within the club.
‘We don’t give up.
Obviously the FA Cup is a priority for us.
10791
Indonesia sits at the top of the list because deforestation in the region is leaving many species at risk, including orangutans and critically endangered Sumatran tigers and rhinos.
8. Thailand - 55 .
10792
The former maximum security goal is said to be haunted by the owners promise they've never seen a ghost .
The quaint one bedroom cottage covers a tiny 63 square metres .
10793
Not all his chat-up lines would work today, though: ‘Your palms sweat,’ he once told her.
But the book also does full justice to Phyllis herself, who died, unmarried, in 1939 at 48.
10794
Success:
CBS News revealed that Keurig Green Mountain has proved highly successfully and made $4.7 billion in revenue.
.
Science:
10795
Speaking to MailOnline Mr Danczuk said: 'I think I speak for the vast majority of people in Rochdale in saying that this family will not be welcome back in Rochdale.'
Mr Danczuk said they were not welcome back in Rochdale .
10796
She has been in Brisbane's Princess Alexandra Hospital ever since and doctors are still desperately trying to rid her body of the bacteria .
10797
Hatem al-Dimashqi, an activist based in an area just south of Damascus, said the Yarmouk camp witnessed sporadic clashes and shelling earlier today.
10798
Evra is now at Juventus but says he has already taken some of his coaching badges .
Evra left Manchester United on a free transfer in 2014 after eight years at the club .
10799
The outspoken midfielder (right) was commenting after West Brom surrendered a two-goal lead .
The performances have been really, really good.
10800
But the family meal was interrupted by sounds of what appeared to be a pornographic film, being broadcast on the restaurant's television.
10801
Mr Smith recently put his sprawling mansion on the market for £6.5million, having spent millions refurbishing it, as he and his wife want to downsize now their children are older and moving into their own homes .
10802
Three men, all with Elvis' trademark sideburns and hairstyle, sip drinks as they attend the Elvis Weekender in Bridlington in 2013 .
10803
Witness: 'She put gas on her and put a match on her,' horrified neighbor Mike Davis said . The home: When paramedics arrived at Wright's Sacramento home, the seven-year-old girl was covered in serious burns and was rushed to the hospital .
10804
And Lufthansa says it is looking into what appears to be a 'regrettable isolated case' but did not give further details.
Lufthansa has said he subsequently passed all medical tests.
10805
According to Anne Arundel County Police, an officer checked the business and found a severely injured woman in the kitchen area.
10806
Despite Erik and Maarten's best efforts to later track down their sister, it was only after Erik moved back to the Netherlands, joined Tinder and swiped 'right' on Josephine's profile that they were reunited - but the penny didn't drop straight away.
10807
Exotic:
Turtles packed in a container:
She denied intending to sell the animals on the black market, claiming they were 'for future breeding'.
10808
The scene was greeted by the voice of a woman in the background saying: ‘Ahhhhh, kill it!!’ A few more whacks
10809
Photos provided by a journalist show the plane tilting to one side and its left engine touching the runway .
10810
Outcry:
The family was taken to the Rohwer, Arkansas camp.
They were forced to live there for the duration of the war, according to NBC News.
10811
Property owners are now asking the city to designate the area for swimming only, which would outlaw fishing there and, they hope, drive the sharks back out to sea.
10812
Ms Hiley was involved in the launch of Baby Gaga breast milk ice cream in 2011 and teamed up again with ice cream maker Matt O'Connor to create the product.
10813
Barca prevailed with a narrow 85-80 victory in the Euro League contest.
Barcelona team-mate Dani Alves (front left) joined Neymar and friends to watch some live basketball .
10814
His consistency has been unbelievable and that's why I voted for him as the PFA Player of the Season – I'm obviously not allowed to vote for a team-mate.'
10815
An estate agent is invited into the house and greeted by the fake homeowner, Rosie.
Another startled estate agent lifts his hands up into the air in an automatic surrender position.
10816
The findings showed those who had pre-hypertension or hypertension were more likely to eat more meals away from home per week, have a higher mean BMI, have lower mean physical activity levels, and be current smokers.
10817
He is reported as saying: 'Our products do include products that increase feelings of sensuality and improve the atmosphere between the couple in the sexual relationship between them.'
10818
Soon after the couple parted ways, but Garlington reveals he had no idea how much the actor cared for him until he read his biography, released after he died of AIDs in 1985, in which he called him his 'true love.'
10819
I told him that I was not a prostitute.’
Rojo and Di Maria are not back in action until next Sunday when Manchester United host local rivals Manchester City.
10820
'These dogs should've never been alive after the first attack,' Saltsman said.
During the attack, one neighbor, a medic, used a belt as a tourniquet to stop Sytsma's bleeding.
10821
QPR’s last league win at Villa Park came back in March 1992 (1-0).
Aston Villa have won just one of their last eight Premier League home games (W1 D3 L4).
10822
Alves, however, has since claimed that he is not thinking about leaving the Catalan club.
'If they say this is the final offer, then they (negotiations) are over.
10823
Dog tags a U.S. soldier lost on a Massachusetts beach 70 years ago have been returned to his son at the same place.
Benn died in 2002.
10824
Zipporah Lisle-Mainwaring, the owner of the stripy Kensington property, may be worth up to £60million and has fallen out with her family over inheritance .
10825
Luis Figo does not believe that Sepp Blatter will receive ALL 54 votes from African nations .
Blatter (left) has received the backing of African football's president Issa Hayatou (right)
10826
The Airbus A380 will be advertised as having 544 seats instead of 525, and Emerson said the additional revenue per aircraft would be $20m per year.
10827
Nine other defendants, who police said played a major role in organising the collisions, were all found guilty of conspiracy to commit fraud including Dean Brown, 42, (left) and Barry Cooper, 35 (right)
10828
A police statement said that investigators were told the cross-dressing robber entered the service station on Taylors Road in Taylors Hill just before 7.30pm.
10829
US researchers found evidence that living near congested roads or polluted areas can lead to ‘silent strokes’ which in turn cause shrinkage of the brain and other damage.
10830
They remain in the relegation zone but were still just three points off 15th place ahead of the weekend fixtures.
'I think our performances have been decent at least.
10831
The police who quizzed them say both teenagers have confessed to the murders and rape.
The only reason they have given for the carnage was that they were drunk, the officers added.
10832
According to court filings, Ms Bruce impregnated herself with a turkey baster, believing that Mr Boardwine would not have any parental rights because they did not have intercourse.
10833
He did not attend a brief hearing at Trafford Magistrates' Court on Wednesday but a not guilty plea was entered on his behalf by his lawyer, meaning he will now stand trial over the incident.
10834
Alvaro Morata is happy at Juventus and has no interest in joining Real Madrid, according to his agent .
'Alvaro is not a hypocrite, he says what he thinks.
10835
Annabel says that parents should keep trying out new ideas with their children and eventually they will see positive results when it comes to a healthy diet .
10836
Also featured on the show is Andrea Carter, 72, from Leighton Buzzard, who has had a number of cosmetic treatments over the years - and wasn't even put off going under the knife after a botched tummy tuck in Latvia which she admitted 'almost killed me'.
10837
Around two tonnes of cocaine have been seized from a boat intercepted at sea by the Royal Navy and the Border Force.
They remain in custody and are due to appear at Aberdeen Sheriff Court on Monday.
10838
Sockeye salmon spend most of the year out at sea, but during spring they attempt to swim back up rivers to breed, making them easy targets for bears and eagles3020099 .
10839
The grade one winner over two and a half miles schooled over Aintree-style fences on Saturday under big race jockey Andrew Lynch.
10840
The ship, built in 1988 and previously owned by Norwegian Cruise Lines as Norwegian Crown, grew by 100ft, with 93 cabins added when she was added to the Fred.Olsen fleet in 2007.
10841
The singles chart reveals the same trend, with David Bowie’s 1975 track Young Americans coming in third.
The new figures have also revealed the most popular albums and singles of the decade.
10842
Liar: Kendall Schler (left) was unable to prove that she won this year's marathon in St. Louis so Andrea Karl (right) was named this year's winner .
10843
Gutierrez has received a hero's reception from Newcastle fans since his return to the team .
'We can't start late in the derby because we want three points.'
10844
It was common in Victorian times because of lack of access to sunlight – which the body needs to make vitamin D – and poor diets.
10845
Shelly Sterling's lawyers used other recordings to show he bought Stiviano a house, a Ferrari and other things.
'Say he gave $2,000 to a call girl,' Nehoray said.
10846
'The movie cars are used in promotions or premiers - clients want something that can be driven around rather than sit there like any other prop.
10847
Last seen:
On Thursday morning, the Kemah police announced that the girl's body had been found in the water near the marina around 9am.
Tragic:
10848
CRISPR technology precisely changes target parts of genetic code.
'At this early stage, scientists should agree not to modify the DNA of human reproductive cells.'
10849
Bale has become a scapegoat for the club and was slaughtered by Spanish media after his one-on-one miss .
'If Gareth Bale scores it is a different game to what we saw.
10850
The association's allotments were moved by Oldham council.
‘But the soil they have put down is ridiculous.
He believes nothing will grow there for years .
10851
Fabulous, hilarious, slightly eccentric middle- aged, middle-class women with plenty of pashminas and photos of dogs on our iPhones!
And me?
10852
A separate survey of 2,000 respondents by Barclaycard also found people were feeling more confident about their finances.
10853
The BBC Radio 2 presenter professed his deep shock at the headlines, explaining that most of his colleagues in the industry were 'just working hard' and 'having a good time'.
10854
A New Hampshire political operative described Hillary Clinton's afternoon meeting at this Claremont, NH home as an entree toward an endorsement by Senator Jeanne Shaheen.
10855
Writing an op-ed for The Washington Post, Schwarzenegger says he believes the defining problem is that Republicans are focusing on the wrong issues, in a move that will only hurt the GOP and further alienate voters.
10856
But the Tories said the candidate for Hull West and Hessle had been ‘sacked’ for threatening to stand as an independent.
10857
I was elected to change the way the UCI conducts itself and I won't be drawn into this kind of public conflict.'
10858
He says 'A ducking will happily snuggle up to a kitten or anything else that feels cosy'
Four fluffy dogs line up in a log crate as they pose for a picture .
10859
Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has branded the obsession with Jurgen Klopp's next move as a 'ridiculous circus'.
I find that circus a bit ridiculous.
10860
Kim Jong-un has ordered the recreation of the famous 'pleasure troupe' of young women that North Korean leaders have traditionally employed to entertain them.
10861
Khan was killed in a 2011 drone strike .
The tease of martyrdom when the ruh leaves .
As I swing on a hammock between date palms, I drop bombs .
10862
Many women spends hundreds of pounds a month on expensive skincare products but make common mistakes every single day that could lead to their skin ageing faster .
10863
The highly trained, specialised working dogs are licenced to accompany the child in essentially any location.
10864
Some of Luiz's best performances for PSG - and former club Chelsea - came when he was deployed in a central midfield role with less defensive responsibility, something Hoddle believes manager Laurent Blanc should consider from now on.
10865
Earlier this month, in desperation, the RSPCA launched an urgent appeal to rehome some of the hundreds of horses in their care.
10866
With 18 decks and a capacity of nearly 5,000, the ship is truly an engineering feat - and expects to welcome 80,000 on board this summer .
10867
Though Madonna didn't see his expression, he clearly was in pain over the experience .
Drake waited patiently as the beauty circled him while singing Express Yourself .
10868
This image shows some of the mysterious irregularly shaped hollows on Mercury's surface in greater detail .
10869
But the IPT said the dissident should not receive compensation for breaching Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the right to private and family life.
10870
Super Bowl champions New England Patriots will begin the 2015 NFL season at home to the Pittsburgh Steelers on Thursday, September 10.
10871
The report warned that ‘uncertainties pertaining to the May elections’ mean spending may not be cut as fast as planned.
10872
But he's not doing well now.
It hurts.
And he welcomes the challenge which some think threatens his unbeaten legacy: 'I respect Manny Pacquaio.
10873
By the 18th century the quarry's entrance was blocked off and forgotten.
In 1887 a local priest rediscovered the site and it eventually became a tourist attraction.
10874
'Blonde is such a statement, despite the fact that it's a lot of maintenance behind the scenes,' he said.
'But I don't know if it's a style we will be trying out on Rita in real life!'
10875
Local resident Terry Rauh told MLive a fire took place at the building once before.
An investigation into what was behind the blaze continues, the news outlet reported.
10876
The playground has now been fenced off with an orange barricade.
Workers carry away a container after extremely high levels of radiation were detected in the park .
10877
Reading: Federici; Gunter, Pearce, Knight, Obita; McCleary (Mackie 45), Ake, Norwood, Robson-Kanu; Yakubu (Cox 78), Appiah (Pogrebnyak 45)
10878
Inspiring:
Cantu worked for famous chef Trotter at his eponymous restaurant from 1999 until 2003, when he left to start his own restaurant, Moto.
10879
Viewers are encouraged to not to switch off until having watched the final piece of advice, to enjoy the burst of love that follows the birth, which is 'hands down the best tip of all'.
So be sure to make and keep some keepsakes.
10880
He had a true servant’s heart,' Graham said.
News 13 reported that the Florida Department of Law Enforcement has been called in to investigate the shooting.
10881
Local media said a man had also been detained.
Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz was taken to hospital with gunshot wounds but died of his injuries .
10882
In the video, the band's lead singer strums a ukulele as the group serenades passengers on board - despite Ryanair's scathing review of the sarcastic ditty.
10883
The FBI and NYPD announced on Wednesday that up to $115,000 was available for information relating to the attack .
An explosive device detonated at the military recruitment center in Times Square.
10884
More questions emerged about Lord Janner's health last night as it was revealed he wrote to the House of Lords a fortnight ago to extend his role.
10885
In 2013 Dr Ronald Neeleman, head of vaccination innovation at Sanofi Pasteur, admitted to a conference that the vaccine hadn't been reviewed in many years, saying it serves 'a small market, with very low returns, and there is not really an incentive to redevelop'.
10886
The draw, though, left them two points from safety having played a game more and boss Chris Ramsey admitted he was nervous after Austin's goal.
10887
Details are still emerging of how the pensioner came to be found at her flat.
South African news networks reported that neighbours said the pensioner was last seen with friends on Saturday afternoon.
10888
The presenters were filming a Christmas special in the South American country last year when the controversy erupted .
10889
I've had players come to me who are very unhappy and then money is nothing, in my opinion.'
He said: 'Scepovic is in the squad for Sunday.
10890
I was thrilled to support Tikko because Dorian had found a way to give back to our community; a community that has been wonderful at supporting our fundraising efforts.'
10891
A file picture of a Mercedes Sprinter van - the model of vehicle that was damaged by Townsend .
On one occasion Martin Carter swore at Mr Townsend.
10892
More than a few users mentioned the name Obamaniqua as being the real name of children they had come across, which is defined by Urban Dictionary as: 'A ghetto-fabulous African-American that loves president Barrack Obama.'
10893
He does admit that the boy later vomited and appeared 'sleepy' but says the next morning Adrian was awake, talking and 'having fun'.
10894
Stuart McCall has revealed he will be cheering on Livingston during their match against Hibernian .
'The kid is a goalscorer and he's got great energy and good pace.
10895
The letter claimed that the 'Conservative-led Government has been good for business' and backed the cut in corporation tax to 20 per cent.
10896
after that he had grabbed the screwdriver and started digging at the back of my gums to try and get out these wisdom teeth,’ she said in the video.
10897
Others based in China were offering the powder contained in the capsules in bulk, allowing anyone to make pills and sell them online.
10898
The letter, delivered to residents of Fulham, outlines Chelsea's plan for their victory parade on May 25 .
Crystal Palace (home) - May 3 .
10899
Construction jobs also fell by 1,000, the first drop in 15 months.
This year's job growth has yet to ignite a larger boom in consumer spending.
10900
FIFA announced last week that the decision on the 2026 tournament will be made in 2017 - when Blatter is still likely to be FIFA president.
10901
You don't have to be an avid follower of Manchester United to know that Radamel Falcao has struggled badly at Old Trafford this year.
10902
She soon became reffing women's college games as well as WNBA and NBA D-League matches, according to Grantland.
Ria Cortesio, Minor League Baseball .
10903
The lion reacts in panic and attempts to flick the barrel from its head by running around .
He is happily walking around again.
10904
Southampton have opened talks with Clyne, who was spotted at a WWE event in the capital on Monday night, over a new contract but face a huge fight to keep him beyond the end of the season.
10905
'He should not abuse his strength.
The judge told Bygraves, pictured, that Mr Evans could have easily died when he pushed him over for his wallet .
10906
Lehnardt also allegedly told the sponsor that she had shown her daughter explicit photos, including of Lehnardt having sex with her current boyfriend.
10907
The husband, who is said to be worth £600m and  blows up to £10m per year, was also made to give his wife their 'holiday' property in Cannes, which is worth 17m Euros.
10908
The findings indicated the newborns had ‘strong feelings about how people should deal with a character who hits others’, the researchers said.
10909
Eugene in the United States has been awarded the rights to host the 2021 IAAF World Championships .
10910
When rural farmer Ashley Stewart and his wife Felicity found a baby male kangaroo on the side of the road in 2013, they had no idea that the little joey would quickly become part of their family.
10911
No women appear in any of the photos.
An array of camouflage military equipment, from military fatigues to ill fitting hats are being sold at the market.
10912
'We then confirmed it with the consulate.
Earlier this month, Mrs Clitheroe had raised concerns because her husband had run out of blood pressure medication.
10913
The 27-year-old has not been suspended by his club Sunderland despite the charges .
Sunderland manager Dick Advocaat will not bow to pressure by dropping Johnson despite his charges .
10914
Frank Ernest Shepherd, III of Houston, Texas, led police on a high-speed chase after being pulled over for a traffic stop that ended when he slammed into another vehicle .
10915
The Warwick Farm card is unable to go ahead on Monday and will be moved to Wednesday, with the Wednesday program being totally abandoned.
10916
The encounter begins with the young man approaches the 'fake service member' asking him a series of questions including where he did his basic and boot camp training .
10917
PSG are thought to have doubts about the future of star striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic and should he leave they would certainly want to keep Cavani.
10918
He warned her about the dangers of Australian roads and that they were a lot faster than those in Italy .
Mr Andretta also wanted to issue a warning to tourists.
10919
Radiocarbon dating suggests this burial took place 18,700 years ago and that the female was aged between 35 and 40 when she was entombed.
10920
Survival International said the islanders are ‘extremely healthy, alert and thriving’, but their fishing waters are being threatened .
10921
Patriotic pair: Despite business endeavours in the U.S. they take pride in representing Australian designers . And it's their vibrant and uniquely Australian approach that seems to be working.
10922
Minutes later, it narrowly avoids colliding with two ships, New York and Oceanic.
Titanic departs from Ireland after picking up 113 more passengers and sets off for America.
10923
Only the Open Championship can compete with the Masters for his affections and ambitions.
Absolutely.
It’s a case of practising certain shots.
10924
Huang Funeng said to his wife: 'I am going to look after you for the rest of your life' while she told him: 'I am going to depend on you forever.'
10925
The Match of the Day pundit appears to have worked hard in the gym to lose his 'podgy' label but he still has some way to go to return back to his so-called 'glory days.'
10926
Then Borussia Dortmund gave them a mighty scare in the last-16 before the narrow win over Monaco.
He could even be ready for the semi-finals, something any opponent would dread.
10927
Two psychologists examined Shepard and found that he wasn't likely molest children again after his release, the Times reports.
10928
The 43-year-old has denied committing a public order offence after it was claimed he behaved aggressively towards driver Fateh Kerar, 44, near traffic lights in Altrincham, Cheshire.
10929
Sanders told investigators how Hamm then led him to 'the pit' where he ordered him to do press-ups and pushed his face into the ground.
10930
Javier Hernandez scored two more important goals for Real Madrid in their battle for the La Liga crown .
I am a Real Madrid player.
10931
The French military said the rescue of Sjaak Rijke took place at 5am today in the far north of the African country.
A German died in the attack.
10932
An Oregon teenager was arrested after allegedly hitting a pedestrian with her car and fleeing the scene.
The woman Calvin allegedly hit was 49-year-old Jerrie Ann Horning.
10933
David Zaslav (above) was compensated $156.1million for his role as CEO of Discovery Communications it was revealed on Friday .
10934
Jimmy Butler scored 18 points for Chicago while Reggie Jackson had 22 points and nine assists for Detroit.
Boston was led by Isaiah Thomas with 23.
10935
The university said recent changes to the exams system made it more difficult to decide which students to admit.
'It could be one more barrier in the way.'
10936
He added: ‘I want to lead the Liberal Democrats into and through the next Parliament in all circumstances.
10937
And it seems that boredom has already kicked into the usually jovial Brazilian as he sported a new hairdo on Wednesday.
10938
She told presenters Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford that she often feels lonely thanks to websites like Facebook.
10939
The Red Lady's remains (burial site pictured) were found in the El Mirón Cave in Cantabria, Spain.
However, they have speculated it was likely a burial ritual.
10940
He has continued his fine form during the current campaign, helping his club to third place in the division with three goals in four games.
10941
Residents of the caravan park have told of the horrific levels of violence in the Village .
It is providing roofs over people’s heads,' Mr Farrugia said.
10942
Eventually, I'd like to leave the Bundesliga.
Dortmund want to bring in Real Madrid's Sami Khedira (right) as their new captain for next season .
10943
The two major parties will only be separated by 0.1 per cent, according to the Daily Telegraph survey, leaving either UKIP or the Liberal Democrats as potential kingmakers in a future coalition.
10944
The Manchester United boss was stunned to find players could not train after dark at the swish complex .
A club source said: 'The manager pays very close attention to detail.
10945
He is one of the most senior leaders at the group, yet works three days a week.
Mr Foley said: ‘Having started working part time, I only wish I had done this earlier.
10946
On Sunday, on his fourth day on the run Jake Castner said 'we don't talk to police'
On April 6, Castner boasted 'police can't catch me when I'm prowling'
10947
'It's not enough just to tread water,' she said.
She stepped down from the organization's board within hours of announcing her campaign.
10948
Students reunite with their families as others wait for news outside the high school in Barcelona as it is claimed that the teenage attacker had told classmates he was planning to 'kill all the teachers'
10949
Herrera scored in Manchester United's 4-0 win over Queens Park Rangers without looking at the ball .
10950
The Fanuc CR-35iA claims to be the first 'heavy-lifting industrial collaborative robot' to work with humans without the need for safety fences.
Bots will battle it out at the ICRA conference in Seattle in May.
10951
A spokesman for Kent Police said: ‘An international warrant has been issued for the arrest of Dr Azeez, who is believed to have left the country and returned to Pakistan.’
10952
In his self-motivational notes, Labour leader Mr Miliband (pictured above during the debate as Natalie Bennet speaks)  wrote the words ‘negative’ and ‘positive’ connected by an arrow as well as the term 'Happy Warrior'
10953
Have you seen the ocean?
Since its release, attendance has declined at the company's parks in Orlando, San Diego, California and San Antonio, Texas.
10954
The school district was closed for spring break and the superintendent said a full investigation would begin when classes resume on Monday.
10955
Lance Futch (right) was shocked on Friday when his meeting with a Federal White House official about jobs for veterans turned out to be with President Obama .
10956
Vydra and Guedioura threatened before the home side went close again when the ball was played into Almen Abdi and he spun superbly away from his man to shift the ball onto his left foot before curling a shot narrowly wide of the far post.
10957
Whale sounds are used by whales for different kinds of communication.
is used to describe the pattern of regular and predictable sounds made by some species of whales.
10958
Repeat after me:
Quick learner:
The infant then obediently performs the same stunt with a water bottle of her own .
Two peas in a pod:
10959
This led researchers to the Annama meteorite (pictured)
At 400-metres (1,300 feet) in size, the space rock is about the same size as the Empire State Building is tall.
10960
After her first appearance on the BBC show in 2011 she was told her flowing blonde tresses were 'too present.'
Her case for sex discrimination failed.
10961
'I have always loved extreme sports and when I was in France I had a motorcycle.
Anais, who is a successful swimsuit and fitness model, says she's also been to acting school .
10962
It has already been re-tweeted more than 1,600 times.
Aldi said it had contacted Mr Odell and was investigating the grim discovery 'as a matter of urgency'
10963
Sun spots range hugely in size, from just 10 miles (16km) to 100,000 miles (160,000km) wide - big enough to be seen from Earth without a telescope.
10964
Ms Le Pen already distanced herself from her father last . June after a quip about a French Jewish singer that included an . implied reference to concentration camp ovens.
10965
Danny Ings (right) is a top target for Manchester United and could be set for a summer move to Old Trafford .
Tottenham and Manchester City are also interested.
10966
‘Cantona has his opinion and I thank him for his praise.
Cantona likes good football and goals, but I think Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo are incredible players.’
10967
Sgt Lucas's brother Robert Pain described her as 'a light that will never go out in our hearts'.
Vicar Trystan Hughes said: 'We were privileged in this church to have known her well.
10968
A jilted lover who sent explicit revenge porn images of his ex-partner to her daughter and set up 67 Facebook profiles to bombard her with abuse has been jailed.
10969
'The salmon is smart enough for a dinner party.
Lyndey was inspired by the lamb dish after filming a cooking series in Greece a few years back.
10970
'Likewise, it remains to be seen whether a vaccine could enable a normal HIV patient's immune system to kill HIV with the full strength of an elite controller.
10971
But much to the 18-year-old's relief, he also revealed that keloid removal operations on the ear are among the most likely to be successful.
10972
Fernando Alonso says he will retire from Formula One once his deal with McLaren-Honda comes to an end .
That was one of the great racers talking as he has never talked before.
10973
In 2013, a leaked paper prepared by the Department for Education revealed a steady increase in the number of babies being born has helped fuel the crisis.
10974
Group 16, 3:41pm: Jason Day, Sergio Garcia, Rickie Fowler .
Group 22, 4:47pm: Jose Maria Olazabal, Brendon Todd, Kevin Na .
10975
Abravanel, a Miami Herald columnist, posted a series of tweets on Sunday claiming that he had been 'devastated' by unflattering comparisons to Dr Franff on the  Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, according to  sources close to the doctor.
10976
The FA continue to micro-manage the supposedly free-for-all media interview mixed zone which players have to go through after matches.
10977
He said: 'I think looking good and feeling good for yourself is the most important thing.
'Although we do enjoy an abs session together.
10978
AS report Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti will remain in charge at the Santiago Bernabeu next season .
10979
‘I will have to protect my family,’ he said.
My brother has also been threatened and arrested.
In the same article team captain Kipsiro is quoted.
10980
Photographer Jessica Fulford-Dobson took pictures of young girls skateboarding in dresses and skirts in Kabul, Afghanistan .
Little ladies who skate:
10981
The mother said she questioned her decision to leave the safety of her home at the peak of the violent storm .
‘I questioned whether I had made the wrong choice.
10982
The girl who had been charged and faced trial was, in fact, blameless so far as criminal law is concerned and guilty only of being careless.'
10983
Just nine days later, he bought Mandzukic from Bayern Munich, and the Croatia international looked every bit as aggressive on Tuesday night.
10984
Although ranking relatively low in the scheme of annoying resume errors, senior execs also found attached images of applicant irritating.
10985
Kaylin says the account is now freshly stocked with images sent to her directly from the hot dudes and their furry friends.
Australian Tom Hintze and his husky are pictured having fun in the sun .
10986
Britons apparently spend £815million a year to ‘social media proof’ their wardrobe, with men forking out more than women, according to a new study.
10987
Some of Buzim's twins may not have been registered due to the war.
Mirela and Mujo Balcinovic  live in Buzim where nearly every school class has at least one set of twins .
10988
Frank Lampard finds the target during Villa's 3-0 defeat by Chelsea in the FA Cup semi-final in 2010 .
You can see what he did at Tottenham with the young lads, bringing them through.
10989
He would encourage people and pick them up,’ McKaig said.
The young assistant coach said that when Scott was transferred to the hospital Tuesday, he went to visit him.
10990
Marc Wabafiyebazu, 15, has been arrested for felony murder and his brother Jean, 17, was shot dead after an incident in which the two reportedly tried to rob a group of Miami drug dealers.
10991
He added: 'She was smirking...
The woman was removed from the flight following the air rage incident and put on a later flight out of Chicago .
10992
He was asked if he was gay before a younger man took his trousers off and began performing a sex act on himself.
10993
Henley was quick to thank the airline and even apologised 'for the mix-up'.
TV actress Alyssa Milano was told that she had to abide to the .
10994
Special guests have also been invited to speak at the company's presentations called 'Moose Talks' in a bid to inspire, provide professional and personal development on a range of topics to their staff.
10995
Two beef burgers weighing 220g .
I have only just managed to eat it myself.
'It's loads of fun making stuff that's a little bit ridiculous.
10996
Meanwhile, the family of US contractor Warren Weinstein, who was snatched by Al-Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011, confirmed it had paid a ransom to try to secure his release, which was in the amount of $250,000, according to CBS News.
10997
Welsh GP, Dr Arfon Williams, is now the only doctor available across two rural practices, that serve 4,300 patients in North Wales (file picture posed by models)
10998
His first act upon arriving in Australia was to visit the tomb of the Unknown Soldier .
He was happy to pull funny faces for the amusement of one little girl while meeting wellwishers .
10999
The helmet is wired to the plane to let pilots lock onto targets with 'just a look' and a voice command.
It is worn as part of the Typhoon jet fighter pilot's suit.
11000
The blonde woman was then bundled into a police car - to protect her from an angry mob that had formed in the wake of the carnage, who hurled abuse and tried to attack the American .
11001
Van Gaal called the victory a 'fantastic result' but criticised himself for leaving his side with 10 men following Michael Carrick's late injury.
11002
She follows in the footsteps of a string of American royal wives, among them actress Rita Hayworth who was married to Sir Sultan Muhammed Shah Aga Khan.
11003
Rosberg cut a frustrated figure in the paddock after he missed out on pole to Hamilton by just 0.042secs .
In practice, we’d looked a bit more competitive, certainly.
11004
Fans of the idea who want to get in on the action but don't live in Pennsylvania can continue to check in on the organization's website, as Ms. Schlenker intends to travel with the shop, changing prices everywhere she goes to reflect the local pay gap.
11005
The Borden family burial monument at Oak Grove Cemetery in Fall River, Massachusetts was defaced with black and green paint.
11006
Raikkonen recognises, though, he needs to do better in qualifying on Saturday if he is to thrust himself into the hunt for the title.
11007
After he was arrested, Kenney told police he would 'rather die than be caught by these unknown people', the Sun Sentinel reported.
Flakka resembles a mix of crack cocaine and meth and it has a strong odor 'like a sweaty sock', WPBF 25 News reported.
11008
Djokovic was 3-2 up in the second before rain took the players off court for the best part of an hour.
11009
Its unusual design also features a forward tilt and doors that open like the DeLorean in Back to the Future (pictured). 
Motors: Four 4kW wheelhub motors .
11010
Former Arsenal forward Andrei Arshavin is set to be released by Russian league leaders Zenit St Petersburg at the end of the season, along with veteran Ukraine midfielder Anatoly Tymoshchuk.
11011
They include images of Earth and Mars which were taken when the probe was attempting ‘gravity assist manoeuvres’ in which it used other planets to slingshot its way towards the comet.
11012
A failed clearance fell to the feet of Asprilla at the top of the box and his deflected shot found the empty side of the net.
11013
The view that Manchester City’s chance at defending their Premier League title has been ruined through bad spending gathered pace after they were defeated by a club whose entire team cost less than half one of their substitutes.
11014
Very cleverly, she is now taking her Scottish independence campaign south of the border.
Already, Scots are speculating that there would soon be a second referendum on independence.
11015
A new Ask Reddit thread invited members of the disabled community to list all the ways able-bodied people think they are being supportive, but end up being just the opposite (picture posed by models)
11016
But after the days work is done, he dresses up as iconic Japanese sci-fi TV hero Kamen Rider 1 and takes to the streets to lay down the law, according to Japan Today.
11017
It was only then that she filed a complaint against him, according to the suit.
A three-person panel cleared him of any wrongdoing, according to the suit.
11018
Prince George’s County firefighters were able to enter the room by going through the home and breaking a window, according to the Washington Post.
11019
Jason Gillespie has been appointed the new coach of Big Bash League side Adelaide Strikers in a move that will see him combine the role with his duties at Yorkshire.
11020
Property analysts said the move would take Britain back to the 'dark days of the Seventies'.
Chancellor George Osborne dismissed Mr Miliband's stamp duty pledge as a 'complete gimmick'.
11021
It is one of the most radioactively contaminated areas in the world  - but there are still 197 'Samosley', or 'illegal residents' of the area who refused to move out.
11022
A sign posted on the door of the hotel, where guests enjoy sweeping views of the English Channel, warned visitors about an ‘airborne virus’ at the premises.
11023
Captain Rahmani said that ever since she was a little girl she had dreamed of becoming a pilot and spent nearly a year studying English in order to be able to attend flight school.
11024
Finally, Redknapp admitted that while Falcao could have possibly done better to stay on his feet, Terry's challenge from behind shouldn't have gone unpunished.
11025
Sullivan said that he slept every night under the bleachers at the school near Apple's headquarters .
He was said to have spent all of Monday hiking at the scenic reserve.
11026
Alan Smith has denied claims that Liverpool fans attacked the ambulance he was travelling to hospital in during Manchester United's FA Cup fifth round exit nine years ago .
11027
It’s good to see Gomis finally becoming the player I expected him to be.
Manchester United star Ander Herrera (right) scores his side's opening goal against Aston Villa .
11028
The couple's wedding will be on September 26, 2015, though the video fails to say where the ceremony will take place .
11029
But the council took the case to the Court of Appeal, arguing that although the property may be her home, it was not at the time her mother was taken into care.
11030
'I have no chance [of playing against Dortmund],' he added.
Dortmund know how to win against us and the cup match in Leverkusen is even more important.
11031
Bradley, who says he was Hernandez's (above) former drug dealer and then his best friend, cannot reveal his claim that Hernandez shot him in the eye .
11032
A fire rescue image shows the damaged ATV after the fall.
McTevia leaves behind one son, who lives in California and graduated high school last year.
11033
'It's gross, it's offensive, but it's not illegal,' Emily Rose-Weber said.
Some of the women read victim impact statements in court, according to NBC San Diego.
11034
The four Vincenti sisters, including the two older girls Emil and Claire, had a 'monster' of a father who abused them and their mother,or so the story went after the girls were removed from their home in dramatic circumstances and return to Italy .
11035
Fleming was reported missing by her boyfriend.
According to police, the alleged kidnapper had asked her sister to care for the baby she was passing off as her own.
11036
Real Madrid are desperate to land Manchester United goalkeeper David De Gea, but they are prepared to wait until next summer if Louis van Gaal won't negotiate, according to reports in Spain.
11037
According to stunned neighbors when she was arrested, Huntsman was 'perpetually slim' and they would never have suspected she was pregnant.
11038
Melamed walked the race with Vamos, a volunteer team from Caracas, as well as his physical trainers and dozens of friends and supporters who were there to watch him finish the race at 5am Tuesday morning.
11039
But a call-out on their local radio station put them in touch with Shannon Mann, who already has a two-year-old son.
But she doesn't see it as courageous.
11040
Nottingham Forest are keen on signing Blackburn striker Jordan Rhodes, but it could cost them £10m .
11041
Hull have the third-lowest total wage bill in the Premier League, £43.3million in 2013/14 according to figures filed in Companies House, with only Leicester and Burnley paying less overall.
11042
Still, when it comes to the half-billion-dollar crunch on May 2 in Las Vegas, Hatton expects Mayweather will 'find a way to win.'
'Amir could cause him even more problems than Manny.
11043
Throughout the letter, the Reddit user repeatedly apologises for a number of unfortunate incidents - all of which seem to be out of their control.
11044
Video shows Gray screaming out in pain as he is taken to the van.
The police, an independent review board and the Baltimore prosecutor's office will investigate the case.
11045
He allegedly invited her to watch him play music one night and it was 'love at first sight'.
Eight months later, he kidnapped another girl, 17-year-old Amanda Berry.
11046
In February, she requested to drop one of the charges, claiming she had not been in a position of authority when she was accused of having sex with one of the boys.
11047
Back pain is 'very often under-investigated', adds surgeon Robert Lee, of the Spire Hospital in Bushey.
A very observant radiologist spotted a tumour, which was removed .
11048
The creameries will be closed next week and possibly into the following week.
With fruit, scrubbing is never a bad idea, but it may not rid produce of all contaminants.
11049
Celtic could win the Scottish Premiership title against closest rivals Aberdeen on May 10 – if both teams win all their games beforehand.
11050
However the UK is 32nd for its comparatively high rates of deaths from infectious disease, and 33rd for public concern about crime.
11051
A Tennessee man named Jeff Holmes, who said Ball was his niece, wrote on Facebook: 'Please pray for our family.
11052
Andros Townsend (second left) celebrates his goal for England alongside his young Tottenham team-mates .
The acid test is whether a manager will start a player in a Premier League game.
11053
On Friday, five days after the shooting, the 8-year-old was released from the hospital with nearly two dozen medical staples holding his scalp together.
11054
And cars were left floating in Harris County in half a foot of rain water.
Hundreds were evacuated from this Big Top circus in Angleton after rain ripped through the sides .
11055
‘Sadly this and other studies show patients are not getting access to a treatment that saves lives.
Mother-of-two Anna Tilley knows only too well the importance of staff awareness.
11056
Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Gary Neville, Nicky Butt and Andrew Cole went out for dinner just hours after their former side's 1-0 defeat by Chelsea.
11057
When officers arrived at the scene, they said they found a couple of beer bottles on the ground (above scenes from the incident as police arrest Acevedo)
11058
He was the best player on the pitch and in his dreams last night he was probably hoping he would get them through to the final.
'Today they did that with a great performance by their goalkeeper.
11059
It also said youngsters are leaving school without English and Maths skills - and that their inability to manage money led to many of them overestimating the costs involved in taking a job.
11060
In 2013 he slept in his car at the Tory party conference.
'I also tend to be quite flexible, but having a big meal in front of him - that was a bit too much.'
11061
Chevrolet said the car offered a ‘glimpse at mobility of the future.’
The car also has magnetic hubless electric wheel motors and a wireless autocharging system.
11062
Manchester United legend Gary Neville has slammed their performance against Everton as 'toothless' following their 3-0 defeat on Sunday.
11063
Their father told his son to go to bed as a minor punishment, but after 15 minutes he found him hanging in his room.
11064
Guests were forced to listen to the wedding song 10 times while it played over and over, and the couple were left with three marriage certificates after officials got crucial details wrong on the first two.
11065
'The age of Little Foot has been highly debated,' said .
 The date places Little Foot as an older relative of Lucy, a famous Australopithecus skeleton dated at 3.2 million years old that was found in Ethiopia.
11066
The 7-foot-5, 360-pound Bhullar is being called up from the team's NBA Development League affiliate, the Reno Bighorns.
11067
Tesco is close to ditching the last of the private jets used by its top executives after an accounting scandal that sparked the biggest crisis in its 95-year history.
11068
If Liverpool are to get back to where Rodgers wants them to be, they need goals.
If you look at teams who are successful they have that – a consistent striker. ‘
11069
United are reportedly willing to offer Dortmund up to £30million to sign Hummels, who may be tempted to move in search of Champions League football.
11070
Team Sky cyclist Elia Viviani lies on the ground following a major crash in the one-day Scheldeprijs race .
It was fortunate that none of our other riders were involved.
11071
Lukaku is Everton's top scorer this season with 18 goals.
Lukaku signs autographs for fans ahead of a Barclays Premier League match at Goodison Park .
11072
Doctors have been accused of letting a woman die after wrongly concluding she had terminal cancer.
But, they claim, they were told it would cause unnecessary distress.
11073
The tabloid claims it handed the images to police, who were 'delighted' with the find.
One source said the footage 'blows the case wide open'.
11074
The outside trio are set to secure the Europa League places but only if Arsenal win the FA Cup.
Automatic promotion: Burton Albion, Shrewsbury Town, Bury .
11075
Measuring 30cm high and made entirely from cake, these amazing hand-crafted designs are a luxury alternative to traditional Easter eggs.
11076
'It's great to be in Yorkshire,' Mrs Cameron said.
After taking nine minutes to complete a puzzle, Boris Johnson and David Cameron were relieved to try their hand at hand painting, which they found much easier .
11077
Wayne Rooney swivels to blast a right-footed shot into the top corner of Aston Villa's net on Saturday .
And the fact it was a vital derby winner is why I put it ahead of Wayne Rooney's.
11078
Rest assured, Gabriel said all her recipes are easy - all it requires is stocking up on a pantry of new ingredients.
3 tbsp coconut cream .
11079
Miss Doyle, who suffered a ‘blunt head injury’, was pronounced dead at the scene in Newport, South Wales.
Ali, of Newport, was remanded in custody ahead of a hearing in July.
11080
The survey, carried out by OnePoll, found men are also guilty of taking multiple selfies before they post one they like .
11081
A Pennsylvania math teacher was called 'dangling candy' by the judge who sentenced her to 30 days in jail for having sex with a 17-year-old student.
11082
Mr Grange, who is vice-chair of the Extradition Lawyers' Association, said: 'The purpose of the extradition request was for Rancadore to be returned in order to serve a sentence of imprisonment.
11083
'The new homes are lovely.'
The property, which is owned by Croydon Council, was demolished to avoid it becoming a sick tourist attraction.
11084
Miss Smart said she had not seen the men responsible since she complained to the building company, Fimeca.
We are not proposing to criminalise wolf-whistling.'
11085
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has asked San Francisco Bay Area boaters to watch out for and steer clear of whales, which migrate into the San Francisco Bay Area in large numbers during the spring and summer .
11086
Phelps, who was suspended last year by USA Swimming after his arrest on drunk driving charges, is entered in the 100-meter butterfly on Thursday, 100m backstroke and 400m freestyle on Friday and 200m individual medley and 100m freestyle on Saturday.
11087
Delph's strike means that Tim Sherwood's charges will return to Wembley to face holders Arsenal in next month's showpiece and the former Leeds midfielder says it will be a dream come true.
11088
In spite of the defeat which prompted her predecessor's resignation, the SNP leader has racked up support across Scotland since, with some fans even hopeful of a victory on May 7.
11089
The 14-year-old playmaker is regarded as one of the best talents to emerge from Anderlecht's youth set-up and has also attracted attention from Arsenal and Barcelona.
11090
The family of 6-year-old Joshua Medrano are seen Wednesday leaving the courtroom where Blaine Boudreaux made an appearance on charges stemming from a trio of accidents in Houston.
11091
Lindsey Vonn spoke about her relationship with Tiger Woods on the Late Night With Seth Meyers .
Seth Meyers listens intently as the US skier speaks about Woods and his family .
11092
A study found that the majority of older workers did not believe better computer skills would help them in their current job .
11093
'This is about actually encouraging young people to recognise they have more in them then they ever realised before.'
11094
The 'conscientious objector' exemption on children's vaccination has been effective since the Howard Government, but after meeting with religious organisations, Mr Morrison said payments will be cut off if parents don't immunise their kids.
11095
O'Riordan sobbed as the letter was read out at Brighton Crown Court yesterday.
But Mrs O'Riordan said that last year she felt 'smothered' by her husband and wanted 'more me time.'
11096
'I hope (we've got momentum).
Leicester have a relatively manageable run-in and play host to Swansea City in their next game on Saturday.
11097
Arsenal supremo Dick Law has flown to Argentina in an attempt to rubber-stamp the capture of Maxi Romero.
11098
A mysterious sinkhole spewing fire and incredible heat has appeared in a Chinese hillside.
He added that smoke often comes from under the ground on this hill in the spring and autumn.
11099
Zara Phillips has told of how she was surprised at how difficult it was to regain her fitness after the birth of her daughter, Mia, one (pictured left in January and right, last July when Mia was six months old)
11100
Robertson was jailed for life yesterday after being convicted of murder, while Benjamin Carr also received a life sentence for paying the killer to murder Mrs Davis, 47.
11101
They were arrested as part of Operation Captura, a drive launched in 2006 by the National Crime Agency, Crimestoppers and Spanish authorities to catch suspects who had fled from the UK.
11102
He said: 'The problem with her statement was that we had already received a dozen complaints from other men saying they had been robbed after meeting a woman over Facebook.
11103
The Coplestons said he continued to complain and would stand outside the gate early in the morning and late at night.
'The victim said she felt like a prisoner in her own home.'
11104
Archaeologists  have uncovered a ritual burial of 2,000-year-old human skulls - sparking the theory they could be the remains of Boudicca's rebels - as the London Crossrail excavations continue.
11105
Zenit midfielder Axel Witsel (right) sends a headed effort at the Sevilla goal during the Europa League tie .
11106
But thankfully, stunt performer Antti Pendikainen had attached a parachute to his snowmobile to safely deposit him on the ground after driving his vehicle off a mountain.
11107
The video, obtained by the Toldeo Blade, was recorded by the woman's parents.
I am certain she would not appreciate his behavior.
His six year contract was valued at $325,000.
11108
According to Russell, a famous French experiment in which white wine was artificially coloured red with odourless dye was once able to undermine a series of seasoned experts.
11109
One of the funnier airport codes is Cochin International Airport in Kochi in India, which reverses the first three letters of its place name .
11110
While there are a number of abandoned villages in and around the zone, most popular site to visit is the ghost town of Pripyat, which offers a breathtaking snapshot of a Soviet city circa the 1980s.
11111
Injury-ravaged Bayern Munich beat Hoffenheim 2-0 on Saturday, shrugging off a string of absences and their midweek Champions League defeat at Porto to close in on the Bundesliga title.
11112
The thick 60ft-high concrete walls mean guests can rest easy knowing the fort can withstand any ocean waves crashing again its sides.
11113
Witnesses to the fight had different reactions.
The police were called, but all of the women who were involved had fled by the time the cops arrived.
11114
He has taken millions of selfies - including during this campaign.
Prime Minister David Cameron, pictured, used a selfie stick for the first time during visit to Cornwall .
11115
In the new issue of Elle, model Hailey Baldwin said that before achieving fame, she would often sleep over Kim Kardashian's house when she was working in New York .
11116
The 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed the Washington Supreme Court's (above) decision was correct .
The three-member panel's ruling against the 63-year-old convict was unanimous.
11117
On Monday night, Canadian singer Mac DeMarco himself took to Twitter to pay his respects to the fan, who was struck by a Union Pacific train.
11118
Jack Wilshere is reportedly on the shopping list of Manchester City this summer, but the Arsenal midfielder showed off his own trolley dash during his day off on Monday.
11119
Rebecca Lee, defending, said Getty had made a 'stupid decision' to drive home from an evening celebrating his wedding with friends who lived less than a mile away.
11120
Two men are seen on the tracks - which have an electrified third rail - helping the man to safety .
There were reportedly no trains due for several minutes after the man fell.
11121
But this wing-suit pilot, dubbed The Flying Dagger, has described the world's tallest volcanic stack just off the coast of Australia as 'the single most beautiful place I have ever been'.
11122
'Our dating is consistent with evidence that a strain containing the pks15/1 deletion was present in Britain by the second–fourth centuries CE.'
11123
The police investigation has failed to determine at link between the alleged assailants and their victims, or a motive.
He was found lying on the floor of their so-called 'man cave'.
11124
The city of Naypyidaw is shrouded in secrecy.
Burmese workers walk past the massive Parliament building surrounded by high gates and empty 10 lane roads .
11125
Are they at fault for spending the best part of £200m since 2012 without really strengthening the team or does Pellegrini carry the can?
11126
Jimmy Anderson takes part in an England practice session on Saturday ahead of his 100th Test on Monday .
My body, touch wood, has never been better,’ he said.
11127
Addison Russell, 21, may recall his first game at Wrigley Field with a sense of horror because he let his bat slip through his fingers in the seventh while he was trying to catch up to a fastball.
11128
Livingston, on a run of three straight wins, made just the one change, Danny Mullen dropping out while the veteran Burton O’Brien was included to pack the home midfield.
11129
Earnest mocked the GOP executive in comments to CBS DC and noted that Scott had 'outlawed employees in the State of Florida from even uttering the word "climate change."
11130
Surveillance video from the housing complex shows Tyecka Evans arriving home by car at 2.36am and running into her apartment, reported Fox 35.
11131
South Yorkshire Police missed 'intelligence and investigative opportunities' to tackle child sex exploitation in Rotherham, pictured, a report has found.
11132
Seven minutes from full-time amid a cacophony at Stade Felix Mayol, Wasps launched a daring raid from their own 22 which eventually culminated in a second try for Will Helu, but it also featured a miscarriage of justice.
11133
Tara Barber, 32, admitted that it was a well-kept secret and that she had no idea .
'But when I inquired I found HomeServe had bought the space so I approached them.
11134
The prankster films himself at the start of the video that has gone viral after receiving over one million views .
11135
That’s why his performances are better just now.’
United keeper De Gea, pictured at Friday's training session, has been linked with a summer move away .
11136
This follows reports that British police have raised security levels ahead of  several World War I commemorative events taking place next week.
11137
Reece was able to get out on his own.
They were only about 20 feet up the beach when another wave hit and lifted the car up into the water, flipping it on to its roof.
11138
As many as 50,000 tickets will be available to watch the fight at various MGM properties via closed-circuit television.
11139
All was going well until his exuberant celebrations at the final whistle, which prompted an angry reaction from the home fans in the West Stand but he merely shook his fist at them and disappeared down the tunnel.
11140
Current French champions PSG went on to win the game but the news of Luiz’ injury came as a major worry.
11141
Keir Starmer, who ran the Crown Prosecution Service for five years, was in charge when Operation Elveden began its tainted 'witch hunt' into tabloid journalists.
11142
A London pub which survived relentless bombing during The Blitz and was the only building in its road not destroyed by Hitler's bombs has been illegally knocked down to make way for luxury flats.
11143
Jim Brady died in August 2014 from complications relating to the 1981 shooting by John Hinckley Jr, and a coroner ruled the death a homicide.
11144
A pregnant model whose sexy selfies featuring her tight abs turned her into an overnight internet sensation has given birth to a healthy baby boy.
11145
He penned a new five-and-a-half year contract at Spurs in February before scoring 78 seconds into his England debut last month.
He’s just proved that.
11146
The 37-year-old head chef says it will be the first restaurant in the UK dedicated to serving insects as protein to show  bugs can help feed the booming global population.
11147
'A post-season tour, I always feel people come along to watch but the players are half on their holidays.
11148
The dog was taken to a nearby vet and the family gave permission for their pet to be destroyed.
Newborn Eliza-Mae Mullane (pictured) was killed by an Alaskan Malamoute in March 2014 .
11149
The weather is the start of a week-long spell of sunshine, which will create a fine week for schoolchildren in their second week of holidays .
11150
Celebrity chef Matt Kemp's anger management issues cost him his first marriage and his business.
The family man has urged people to 'walk away' from a fight and not engage in fights .
11151
18 paintings were taken from property investor, Peter O'Mara's Darling Point home along with a bronze statue and silver bowl.
11152
Our story claimed that the Premier League convinced its clubs to cooperate with the move in order to keep up with the ever-changing technological landscape.
11153
'I've got my face covered in tattoos, I've got various animals and I've got a giant snake on top of my head,' he explains.
'I'm not happy with it.
11154
Water flooded the engine compartment and the trawler sank within 15 minutes, the BBC said.
A telephone hotline for families of the crew has also been set up.
11155
Traffic authorities in eastern China said they were shocked when spotting this scene on CCTV footage, according to the People's Daily Online.
Sun added that such behaviour could lead to an accident any second.
11156
WEDNESDAY .
SATURDAY .
The SES said there is also some rainfall forecast in the same areas for Monday, which are not yet included on the warning.
11157
Inspector Morrissey added that the Kehlet's campsite was intact, with their two vehicles, trailers and four-wheel drive quad bike parked at the site were also unharmed.
11158
Prosecutors said Santana 'delighted' in the pain he allegedly caused the young woman.
In earlier court documents, Santana confessed to the strangling, stabbing and sexual intercourse.
11159
England boss Hodgson wants Kane to continue his international development with the Under 21s this summer, after helping Gareth Southgate's team qualify unbeaten for the June tournament in Portugal.
11160
De Jong has made just one Premier League start since his £6million arrival from Ajax last summer.
Newcastle striker Adam Armstrong (right) is pulled back by Derby's Max Lowe .
11161
Above, he wrote that the Leibniz notation was 'extremely difficult'
Gandy gave the papers to The Archive Centre at King's College in Cambridge in 1977.
11162
But on Monday morning Victoria Police say they arrested and interviewed Castner 'in relation to burglary and theft related offences allegedly committed in the Bacchus Marsh and Ballarat areas'.
On April 6, Castner boasted 'police can't catch me when I'm prowling'
On 6 April, he begged for a lift to hospital and asked for his mother’s phone number .
11163
Obama claimed Beijing was 'using its sheer size and muscle to force countries into subordinate positions' amid reports of controversial land reclamation efforts in the Spratly Islands.
11164
Firefighters were able to put out a small fire without entering the home in case of any collapse .
Residents in Theddlethorpe said the explosion was heard across the village.
11165
The video shows the incredibly peaceful encounter between the ray and Johnny Debnam, a 29-year-old commercial diver and ocean lover.
It did it three times and I wanted it to do it again.
11166
For the first time in his career, he will drive under his own name.
Mick makes few errors.
He grew up in this environment and it is his life.
11167
Hopefully I can stay fit now and show people the best of me.’ Allen’s increased standing at Liverpool saw him selected for a meet and greet with supporters this week.
11168
He was the subject of a Channel 5 documentary this week, but last night former friends said Holpin’s claim to 40 children – aged between three and 37 – was nonsense.
11169
Clancy agreed with the recommendations and said that the Secret Service had launched a review before the investigations.
11170
Daryl Janmaat will be given the honour during the summer with Carver labelling him as 'outstanding' Coloccini was needlessly sent off during last month’s 3-0 defeat at Everton and landed a three-match ban which ruled him out of the Tyne-Wear derby.
11171
The other was posing for German car brand Opel.
Lagerfeld has already designed a range of accessories (Monster Choupette) in his pet’s honour.
11172
Plans show how Bath Abbey will use water from the city's ancient springs, which heat water used in its Roan Baths.
The air under the floor was heated by a furnace.
11173
Mr Burrell believed that the two men had come into the shop to threaten him over the issue, adding that the only reason he wasn't shot was because he had his son with him .
11174
Martina Hingis fought courageously but could not prevent defeat on her first return to singles since 2007 .
Total career doubles titles: 44 .
11175
Born to perform: Footage shows her plonking her front paws down on the keyboard, as she sits with her back legs on the piano stool .
11176
Gulp.
Rosie explains that when she's at home she cooks organic, healthy food, which she says is an investment but a really important one.
11177
Of course, you have to suspend disbelief just a bit to assume this is possible - but perhaps the Avengers have more of a root in science than you thought.
11178
A Buddhist monk relaxes as a tiger prowls around the grounds .
Thai wildlife officials have been threatening to seize the 147 tigers being kept by monks at The Tiger Temple .
11179
United’s supporters are enjoying seeing City suffer as much as they are now beginning to appreciate the leadership of Van Gaal.
11180
A number of Britons are among those who have not been heard from since the quake.
Chinese media has reported that a Chinese climber and two Sherpa guides were among the dead.
11181
Tuilagi's absence has allowed other players to stake their claim in England's midfield with Bath's Jonathan Joseph filing the number 13 with aplomb during the championship.
11182
But Audrey's cute videos don't just bring joy to those who watch them - they also help bring attention to DBA and raise funds for the Diamond Blackfan Anemia Foundation.
11183
It was impossible to come any closer and sure enough Real Madrid scored with their next chance as Ronaldo rammed home that set-piece.
11184
Clyne, who is highly-rated, has attracted interest from several top clubs including Manchester Untied .
11185
I found it so hard to believe what he was saying was true.
Owners whose dogs are killed can prosecute on the grounds that their property has been destroyed.
11186
Lippert has posted several photos on Facebook of him using the device in South Korea .
Last week South Korean prosecutors formally charged Kim Ki-Jong with attempted murder .
11187
Sunderland are trailing former Wigan striker Franco di Santo.
He made the move to the Bundesliga in August 2013 and has appeared to fulfil some of his early promise.
11188
New radar images have shown that Mount Everest shrank one inch following the Nepal earthquake this week .
This translates to more than 3.2ft (1 metre) of uplift.
11189
For example, dung beetles use polarised moonlight to navigate in straight lines while moving dung and crabs and seabirds are also said to use the moon to carry out daily activities.
11190
How often do you speak to Nigel Pearson?
There's a few others from England, who could definitely be higher up but they just haven't been seen.
Nothing else.
11191
Two gunmen have assassinated prominent Pakistani women's rights activist Sabeen Mahmud by pulling up next to her vehicle at a traffic light and spraying it with bullets.
11192
The 25-year-old Southampton left back got his little girl a red Ferrari just like his own, before posing with the pair of them outside their home.
11193
it would make me ready for Chelsea next year or the year after.’
The young striker will have to compete with the likes of Diego Costa when he is called back to Chelsea .
11194
One festival goer seemed to have taken a leaf from Kanye West's recent catwalk show in which he dressed models in clinging nude bodystockings.
11195
In a post on her Blogilates blog, Cassey said negative comments on her videos are nothing new, but the flood of nastiness has grown especially bad lately.
11196
'She approached the altar on the beach in her white bridal gown and greeted her husband with a kiss.
Mr Roark posted this picture of the ring on his Facebook page shortly after finding it .
11197
The restaurant is situated near the ABBA-museum in central Stockholm .
If the concept proves to be a success Ulvaeus didn't rule out transferring it to other countries.
11198
Sportsmail have teamed up with Gillette to offer one lucky reader the chance to win a pair of Nike Magista Obra boots signed by the England and Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart.
11199
David Cameron will say today that high taxes and wasteful government spending are ‘immoral’ as millions receive a tax cut.
11200
Dick Advocaat has serious concerns over the strength of Sunderland’s players ahead of their relegation run-in.
‘They also know they played badly in the second half against Crystal Palace.
11201
A Kentucky woman was forced to give birth on Interstate 65 on Thursday while stuck in traffic waiting for the Presidential motorcade to pass.
Both mom and baby are doing well.
11202
In total, four large orange banners were unveiled near the explosion sites on Tuesday morning .
A passerby wearing a t-shirt honoring Martin pauses near one of the two explosion sites .
11203
After a four-month lull, it is announced that the underwater search, involving depths of up to 3.7 miles (6km), would resume at the end of September.
11204
The club has changed a lot since I’ve been here but nothing changed for me personally,’ he said.
‘As soon as he was appointed I looked for his goals on YouTube,’ said Ward-Prowse.
11205
Grimes Cottage is a heritage-listed 1830s Colonial Georgian residence with three storeys and six bedrooms and is set to sell for $4million .
11206
Take That members (from left) Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen have still not paid back the £20million they owe the taxman, one year after they were ordered to.
11207
And in a missive posted yesterday Hussain railed against jihadis who moan 'like menstruating women' about the guns they've been given.
11208
The 54-year-old victim, known as 'Pongo' was killed in what Essex Police are describing as 'an altercation' in the town.
A third man suffered minor injuries.
11209
He also paid tribute to the performance of QPR, saying: 'They were very difficult to play but we showed great mentality and never gave up in the difficult moments.'
11210
According to reports out last month, visitors had been banned from visiting the teenager's hospital room in a bid to keep her surviving brother away.
11211
Amateur video footage shows how a group of climbers ran for their lives as the Nepal earthquake hit at Everest Base Camp yesterday .
11212
The Hebrew Home is planning to evaluate the programme next month, with the aim of expanding it to several hundred residents in its memory-care 'neighbourhoods'.
11213
Labour said the 'Marie Antoinette' moment by the Work and Pensions Secretary showed 'just how out of touch the Tories are' about the lives of working people.
11214
The 18-time Olympic gold-medallist was suspended by USA Swimming for failing a drink-driving test .
'I really enjoy it, and it feels good to be back.'
11215
Lee Westwood has got an impressive recent record at Augusta and Justin Rose has shown he can play well here.
How will Rory do?
How will Tiger do?
11216
'This process will enable space systems to be launched in a compact and durable 'embryonic' state,' the firm says.
He says the current way we build spacecraft is flawed.
11217
Securing the future of the Algerian international has moved up the Spurs hierarchy's agenda amid fears his performances will attract unwanted attention.
11218
Neither Cook nor Trott could be blamed for that nor for the careful way they went about their batting in this two-day practice match against a St Kitts Invitational XI that would struggle to defeat a decent English club side.
11219
He had clambered out on to the ledge when police failed to talk her down .
Xu has been widely praised for his actions but insisted he was only doing his job.
11220
Kick It Out have urged Carlisle to refuse entry to any fans who decide to black up for the fixture .
11221
He assured the public that the White House takes regular actions to prevent intrusions on its unclassified network.
11222
A hearing in the New Orleans case had been scheduled for Thursday before a magistrate.
The real estate heir was temporarily placed on suicide watch soon after his arrest.
11223
The Marshall County Board voted last week to send a bill for $76,000 to the Peoria Republican who resigned last month after questions about his extravagant government-funded spending.
11224
Although the location of the video, released on Friday, has yet to be confirmed, it is claimed to have been filmed near the Yemeni capital, Sanaa, which was captured by the Houthis last September.
11225
But now the Environment Agency has admitted that another £86,000 had to be spent on a 'wildlife survey'.
'The over-wintering is necessary to ensure their survival.
11226
The company behind the test, Color Genomics, was founded by Elad Gil, a former cancer researcher at MIT and Otman Laraki, a former engineer at Twitter and Google.
11227
Then two huge games - Manchester United and Arsenal.
In any case, Liverpool and Rodgers need to find a way through.
Real Madrid 1-0 Liverpool, November 4 .
11228
Rosannah's aunt Jessica Searle is seeking treatment for her niece in the United States .
Ms Seale said that Rosannah's mother has been very strong even through the delivery of Skylah (right)
11229
The three leaders’ wives were on parade yesterday, marching across the country in support of their men, in support of the political party into which they married, in support of desperately important employment issues – keeping their idiot husbands in a job.
11230
She did not know the sex of her baby and gave the scan results to a baker.
Video shows Cher Lair from Apex, North Carolina, cutting into a cake at her gender reveal party with family gathered around .
11231
'I was diagnosed on the 23rd of June last year,' Ms Steckenreuter told Daily Mail Australia .
If you would like to donate to Louisa Steckenreuter's cause, visit her donation page here.
11232
Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta said that those behind the attack were 'deeply embedded' in Kenya, and called on Kenyan Muslims to help prevent radicalisation.
11233
Vertigo-inducing:
Downtown:
: 8th Avenue is pictured below the teen's dangling feet as he captures the city from another new perspective .
11234
Graham explained her fury at seeing her son caught up in police violence also came from a place of deep worry as a parent.
'He sees me struggle,' she said.
11235
In 2008 they bought a £5.75million Grade I listed Buckinghamshire manor house - now worth in the region of £8 million.
It's not a solution I would agree with.
11236
Filmmakers followed their story for a controversial documentary called Fatherland by TIA Productions.
'And this is why we have to train our people to be prepared.
11237
Beforehand he also tweeted: 'I've never actually seen #StarWars but the fact that the bad guy was all black and ate watermelons was unbelievably racist even for the 70's.'
11238
In a statement, the church said they 'felt the need' to let both women go.
Twatchman added she had been a 'wonderful teacher' who was 'gifted with children'.
11239
But Roxy is now happier than ever, after starting hormone treatment with the full backing of her family.
Finally, in October 2013, while Roxy and Jo were watching TV, Roxy revealed her secret.
11240
He spent three days having sex with me.’
Another victim told Human Rights Watch how she had tried to kill herself so that she wouldn't be raped again .
11241
Defence:
Those sympathetic to Reclaim Brixton's protest and locals of the area have taken to Twitter to denounce isolated incidents of violence.
11242
There is a problem with England's top order and it is not an easy one to solve.
I replied that I only actually spoke to the England middle order.
11243
Sir Terry finishes his final book, The Shepherd's Crown, which will be published this September .
Sir Terry dies at his home in Wiltshire.
11244
Manager Sam Allardyce says filling the stadium is the most important thing for any football club .
'The most important thing at a football club is to fill the stadium,' he said.
11245
Emoji are popular in the Instagram community, with nearly half of Instagram captions already featuring the small pictures.
11246
The Glass House in Chislehurst, which was formerly a secret Cold War bunker and has now been transformed and is up for sale for £3.5million .
11247
Rangers took the game to their opponents but early headers from Aiden Wilson and Ross McCrorie ran past either post.
Kerr slides along the Hampden pitch in celebration after putting Celtic ahead .
11248
A novelty online game has also been released in which players are invited to 'destroy all Monty Python asteroids before they collide with Stephen Hawking'.
11249
Campers helped rescue teams including the air wing, dog squad, local police and SES volunteers in the search of thick bushland.
11250
DARPA demonstrated the new Atlas with a fall arrestor in place.
'Articulated, sensate hands will enable Atlas to use tools designed for human use.
11251
Hulk, who has 41 caps for Brazil, recently signed a new long-term deal at the Russian club until the end of the 2018-19 season.
11252
Legend has it the city was founded by the Messapii, who are said to have been Cretans in Greek records, but then the settlement was called Sybar.
11253
A homeless shelter manager was allegedly killed by a former resident who tried to rape her at gunpoint and them shot her as she ran away naked, according to police sources.
11254
Misty Machinshok, 33, pleaded no contest to all charges for convincing her new husband to rape her 15-year-old daughter.
Both victims are now in foster care.
11255
Valle asks at one point when sitting down to eat.
He says he just has dark fantasies.
At the end of the film, Valle expressed his desire to meet a woman.
11256
Cr Betts said in the character reference she wrote for Lazarus that his conviction was 'inconsistent with the gentle well-mannered and respectful young man that I know'.
11257
Winemakers have been accused of fighting new EU regulations on revealing the calorie count on their labels because it will reveal that a bottle of red has the same as six digestives.
11258
Elliot Kear will return to rugby league's Championship with London Broncos after a season with Welsh .
London coach Andrew Henderson said: 'It's a great signing for the club.
11259
Owen scored 158 goals during his time at Liverpool, spending eight seasons on Merseyside until 2004 .
But he is still a notch or two off being "world class".
11260
The photographs have split voters with some criticizing the aspiring politician, while many more praised the sexy candidate for Caldoro in Campania .
11261
'I want to be really pushing the race drivers.
'I want to race, but only if I get the right offer,' added Palmer, son of former F1 driver Jonathan.
11262
We were able to make some of their important players disappear.'
Mourinho's decision to play Kurt Zouma (right) in midfield helped Chelsea to secure a win over United .
11263
Unused subs: Bogard, Westley, Hector-Ingram.
Jordan Brown fired in a teasing cross and Drury could only stab into his own net in an attempt to clear.
11264
The survey of 2000 people revealed that 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' star Audrey Hepburn is Britain's number one style icon with over a quarter of the vote.
11265
The Prime Minister this morning faced the first serious criticism of the campaign so far, as Tory donors rounded on the party's lacklustre message and failure to pull away in the polls.
11266
Scientists have shown that using deep brain stimulation (DBS), a technique already used to treat Parkinson's disease, can boost memory by causing new brain cells to be formed.
11267
I thought: 'That's Joey Barton.'
The following day he invited me and Bianca, my wife-to-be, out to dinner and from then until now we've been close mates.'
11268
It was an emphatic statement of intent: the German juggernaught is steaming towards the final in Berlin on June 6.
And they're not done yet, not by a long way.
11269
Punters can also get 5/1 that the mercury will hit 100F (37.8C) in 2015, or 4/1 that the April record of 29.4C (84.9F) set in 1949 will be broken this year.
11270
Pardew, in contrast, immediately reinstalled Murray in the Palace side and gave him a new contract to the end of next season when he took over in January.
11271
Ferdinand struggled from the start of the season at the centre of the Rs defence after moving on from years of loyal service at Manchester United.
11272
Reddin, the FA's head of medical services Dr Ian Beasley and representatives of the Premier League, Football League and Professional Footballers' Association will all observe the panel.
11273
But he added: ‘That is what parenting is all about.
‘Why should we expect any less of a parent whose rebellious teenage child is refusing to see her father?’
11274
For the first year of his life, every doctor said that his leg would eventually be amputated.
They were able to raise the cash and Luca underwent his first lengthy operation on March 27.
11275
He kept sending messages.
Eventually the woman told the police about the messages, ending the abuse, but the court case was yet another ordeal.
11276
Ronaldo applauds a team-mate as Luka Modric watches on ahead of Tuesday's Champions League clash .
'The two point [gap] gives us a lift,' he told AS ahead of the game.
11277
A furious row erupted today between the Lib Dems and Conservatives over claims David Cameron is plotting to 'slash support for families'.
11278
All was going well until his exuberant celebrations at the final whistle, which prompted an angry reaction from the home fans in the West Stand but he merely shook his fist at them and disappeared down the tunnel.
11279
Along with DNA evidence, the shape of the animal's skull indicated it was a hybrid .
'The animal was certainly exotic for the people of Tulln.
11280
'The final is a 50-50 (game).
Wenger said he was unaware of the final result when quizzed on its significance at the post-match press conference.
11281
"At the end of this term we will have been working in partnership with Standard Charted for almost a decade and we continue to collaborate on our shared values, passion and commitment to the community."
11282
'I can understand his thinking well.'
And Hummels reiterated that he was weighing up his options after Dortmund's defeat by Bayern at the weekend.
11283
'From Red Bull's point of view, we'll offer as much support in the relevant areas as we can.
'It looks like the two issues are similar.
11284
But Bournemouth have been this season’s pacesetters and clearly have no intention of stepping aside for the final sprint to the finish line.
11285
Nico Rosberg (left) and Lewis Hamilton visited Mercedes' Brackley base on Thursday .
'It is clear they won the race, which is worrying.
11286
Monaco manager Leonardo Jardim claimed the penalty decision against his side was a 'huge injustice' Juventus manager Massimiliano Allegri said Carvalho was 'the last man', but otherwise preferred not to get involved.
11287
Ecuador's leader Rafael Correa was pictured with his arm around the boy - seemingly oblivious to the message on the shirt and the large arrow that was pointing in his direction.
11288
The heartfelt message was posted by airline pilot Jai Dillon, who was shown the A4 by a colleague in the industry.
'Take care and spread love.'
11289
Miss Thorpe tonight wrote on Twitter that she had signed the letter 'as a woman who grew up on a council estate with a single parent income'.
11290
Boyata was their only club-trained player named this season.
Ross Barkley is one of the most hotly tipped players in England and worth in the region of £60m .
11291
During an interview with New York Fashion Times, Lafontaine said she became licensed with the International Stunt Association in Europe and later got certified as a stunt driver in California .
11292
Webb told Daily Mail Online that she asked her 80-year-old 'Poppa' James Drain to prom because he never got to attend the dance himself.
11293
She doesn't care.'
She also claims that Gemma, who is unemployed, stole an iPad from one of the children and sold it to fund her party lifestyle.
11294
If you go into all the mistakes that were made, it would give a better-balanced report,' Baugh said.
'Giving him a lifetime achievement award is going to send people into tailspins.'
11295
I'm not particularly hung up on where St George came from.
He said that people who celebrate St George's Day should not be seen as 'racist'.
11296
Cui Hongfang's family told Chinese media that the Canadian tourist was running down steep steps .
He told the newspaper: ‘The foreigner was moving really fast.
11297
The Premier League had agreed to a request from the BBC to film the trophy at Stamford Bridge to help with their programme preparation in advance of Chelsea’s two games this week.
11298
Ade and the boys stopped off at the famous Wild Card gym in Hollywood where Pacquiao trained for the fight .
The group plan a big night out on Friday on the famous Las Vegas strip .
11299
Laurene Jobs said that Hillary Clinton, right, has 'judgment and wisdom' based on her public service .
Bird himself is a frequent participant in Iowa Democratic Party events.
11300
'Guys like Rickie Fowler and Dustin Johnson and Patrick Reed.
He's not short but he's not the longest player on the planet and he gets it done other ways.
11301
Sterling denied he was a 'money-grabber' in the interview, saying he was only concerned about football .
He has made it clear he is happy and hopefully he can do his talking on the field.
11302
If there is one genius in French rugby at the moment, it’s Wesley Fofana.
Brock James v Charlie Hodgson .
Saracens will try to get in his face early to disrupt the rhythm.
11303
Jonah beat three other players in the Nottingham Chess Congress to face Cherniaev, who went on to win the title.
He has already represented England at junior events .
11304
Spanish striker Roberto Soldado is also a doubt for the match at Turf Moor, where Tottenham need a victory to stay on the edge of the fight for a top-four finish.
11305
Pietersen was described as 'disengaged' from his team-mates during that final Test by England and Wales Cricket Board managing director Paul Downton.
11306
The 17-year-olds from Dewsbury, West Yorkshire - billed by their families as two ‘ordinary Yorkshire lads’ - are believed to have travelled to war-torn Syria after going to Turkey on Tuesday last week.
11307
The rover is fitted with 17 cameras.
Aside from keeping track of the rover, this image also allows scientists to monitor nearby sand dunes.
11308
Mr Cameron's plan will affect around 15 million workers across Great Britain in private and public sectors .
The plan was praised by the chairman of BT Mike Rake.
11309
‘He’s got great feet and looks to be a strong boy too.
Jose Mourinho believes that 'it shouldn't even be a debate' that Hazard should claim PFA Player of the Year .
11310
There’s no recklessness involved.
Leicester’s Vereniki Goneva received a one-week ban for striking Saracens flanker Kelly Brown in the same game.
11311
It circulates cold water around the injury, cooling it down with the aim to bring players back from injury as soon as possible.
11312
Wife Lindy told local media that the noose was a tribute to a friend of her husband who had hung himself .
I want people to know I'm not a racist.'
11313
Jose Mourinho's side have led the way since beating Everton 6-3 at Goodison Park on August 30, after Tottenham had led the table following the first two rounds of games.
11314
Dundee United have hit back at fierce criticism of the board's performance by two leading supporters' groups.
The club debt is projected to be reduced to £1.4m by the end of this year.
11315
Benaud was one of the world's most recognised commentators having initially started with the BBC in England before anchoring the Nine Network's cricket coverage in Australia for decades .
11316
Booted out:
Blizerian was kicked off Snapchat just 24 hours after activating his account for posting a video of naked women in his bed .
11317
Visibility is drastically reduced as the snowstorm engulfs the Russian city in a matter of seconds .
11318
When Hernandez went off to Florida to play football, Shayanna went to community college.
Surveillance video played in court from inside the home showed Shayanna giving her a long hug.
11319
According to the lawsuit, prison officials did not provide sufficient treatment for 36-year-old Diamond’s gender dysphoria - a condition that causes a person to experience extreme distress because of a disconnect between the birth sex and gender identity.
11320
The ladies of London will be delighted to know he is completely open to finding love on trains.
'Even Mark Francis would stay there, he is actually an extremely chilled traveller.'
11321
But a team of experts at Brandeis University in Massachusetts have a few words of wisdom, urging students to put down the coffee and sleep.
11322
Her new neurologist told her she had actually been living with DRD, noting that most of her symptoms would improve or disappear with a daily dose of a medication known as L-Dopa.
11323
The quagmire the elephant was trapped in is only around one metre deep.'
The female animal was found lying on its side after becoming trapped in the middle of the night .
11324
The same was also expected in Canberra and a late storm was due in Darwin, however the former managed to clear up enough for some to see the lunar show.
11325
Yeovil Town manager Paul Sturrock suffered relegation with the club in only his second day in charge .
11326
Millie Elia, an eighth-grade student from Oak Mountain, Alabama, died following the accident at Mount Cheaha State Park around 4.40pm on Saturday.
'We'll be cheering for you girl.
11327
In her will, Diana’s butler Paul Burrell was bequeathed the sum of £50,000, free of inheritance tax.
'You feel the emotion of that moment, through reading the record.'
11328
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers looks on as Sterling watches the play unfold .
Sterling (centre) is blocked off by Bellerin of Arsenal, who scored the opener after 37 minutes .
11329
Other European countries also have similar numbers, with Germany having nine million, France recording 7.5million and Spain reporting more than six million.
11330
If we can get through this season we will build something where we are going to step upwards — we won’t be in that position again.’
11331
‘He doesn’t need a break.’
‘He’s a very important player and he will have my support until the end of the season,’ he said.
‘He’s been great,’ Hart said.
11332
Toulon have announced the signing of Australia star Quade Cooper.
Quade Cooper played against England in the Autumn Internationals and will join Toulon this summer .
11333
James Paul Harris, 30, originally was charged with first-degree murder in the 2011 garroting death of 49-year-old James Gerety, but pleaded no contest in December to involuntary manslaughter.
11334
Around 16 million tourists visit Florence every year.
Tour operator Mark Gordon Smith wants to show the city's decline through a series of short documentaries .
11335
But in a desperate attempt to get himself moved Cregan, who was jailed for life after shooting police officers Fiona Bone and Nicola Hughes in 2012, has apparently stopped eating.
11336
Her neighbour and property manager Yang Shao told police the 45-year-old had been pushed by her toddler son, The People’s Daily Online reported.
11337
'The Bishop of Bristol had to write to the Archbishop of Canterbury to get special permission for us to marry in the hospital and we are so grateful he agreed.'
11338
He said Mr O’Connor ‘is bringing in really exciting stories’.
Mr Davies added that parties in the fictional Ambridge (map pictured) are limited to nine attendees because of budgetary considerations .
11339
Cassandra Hann‎ said she was refused entry to Qantas Club because she was wearing Havianas .
Qantas said they were 'sorry to disappoint' when Maria Neale was refused entry to a lounge .
11340
'Little did I know that love was so conditional': LaNia lost 50 pounds after deciding she wanted to change her appearance, but later gained the weight back, which caused her to change her outlook .
11341
The former Liverpool and Tottenham striker was less than impressed with Adam's efforts to imitate him .
'He goes into the celebration far too quickly.
11342
Juventus players celebrate after their 1-0 win in Turin, courtesy of a penalty from Arturo Vital, was preserved in Monaco .
Booked: Chiellini, Tevez.
11343
Selling agent Jason Brand says: ‘This is the best beach residence to come on the market for years and one of the very few homes in Brighton, indeed the UK, to have direct private beach access.’
11344
Joe Root showed plenty of grit, as well as talent, in yet another big innings for England .
Keep him there.
Stokes will have to take it.
11345
Jimi Manuwa confident he can forget about his first career loss and defeat Polish fighter Jan Blachowicz .
I’ve never been a decision fighter.
11346
Judges rejected Home Secretary Theresa May's attempt to deport the 53-year-old serial criminal because of the risk of 'unacceptably savage' abuse he faced in Libya.
11347
Khan Snr says: 'Eddie will talk reasonably in the negotiating room.
Good luck to him getting the pay-night but he's done nothing to justify this world title shot.'
11348
Miss Elbardissy was discovered lying unconscious on the floor, with her face covered in blood.
Miss Elbardissy was reportedly drunk at the time.
No one has been charged in the incident.
11349
'Prayers are needed for all of us right now.
 He received cards from around the world and got more mail in one day than the rest of the town combined .
11350
Payday lenders have all had to apply for a license to trade and will learn in the coming months whether they have been successful.
11351
The next time the pair went to a casino, Mr Hassan told staff he was on a date and appeared tipsy on champagne.
Granger admitted being part of a honeytrap robbery plan.
11352
‘But what happened is that they had the experience at the back and could close the game down.
They have players who can offer his vision and passing range.
11353
A copy of a Cruz for President invitation later began flying around Twitter that showed the GOP presidential candidate had skipped town early to make an appearance at a fundraiser at the home of former Texas Rangers owner and billionaire Tom Hicks.
11354
'She'd been looking at it for a few minutes until it moved.
The RSPCA later attended Rochdale police station and the snake is now being cared for by the animal charity.
11355
My family didn't want me to go England,' he told Ntvspor.
Sahin also explained the differences he's experienced between the Bundesliga, La Liga and the Premier League.
11356
The image was taken as part of Project Mercury, which was the US' first mission to put humans in space.
It started in 1958 and ended in 1963.
11357
In the cooking and cleaning zones of the kitchen, splashbacks are important and while design is also important, it shouldn’t be at the expense of practicality.
11358
Air Force Chief of Staff General Mark Welsh, himself a former A-10 pilot, has said that given budget and personnel constraints, the Air Force needs to retire the plane to save money and free up people to learn to maintain the new F-35 joint strike fighter.
11359
She walked through the city centre to Dorset Street where she waited for a bus before attending the addiction studies course.
11360
He is expected to be the subject of an early summer bid from Arsenal.
James McCarthy celebrates scoring Everton's opening goal against Manchester United on Sunday .
11361
In response to the latest furore, a spokesman for Paddy Power said: 'It's clearly an acerbic reference to recent police activity in the US.
11362
The patent says that the personality could replicate the robot's owner, 'a deceased loved one,' or 'a celebrity,' Google's patent details a cloud-based system where a personality could be downloaded to a robot, in the same way one might download an app.
11363
Joel Parker, 33, was about to get off the Sunshine Bus in St Johns County on Wednesday when he asked the driver if he would like a Snickers bar.
11364
Stunning views:
 The observation deck, perched on top of a 718-metre cliff, boasts incredible views over Yunyang County in China .
Bottom up:
11365
She wants to play,' Audrey's mother, Susan told CBS.
Her mother said the dispute is not about playing time but about 'playing' claiming her daughter 'wants to play'
11366
'Whether it (Everton's results) is all down to that I don't know, but it does play a major part and if you look at the teams who have played in the Europa League, including ourselves, it has had an impact.'
11367
'Swimming in the sea is one of the most enjoyable parts of a coastal holiday and one that should not be avoided simply because of jellyfish in the water.'
11368
She ran at weekends and after work, clocking an average time in the London Marathon and later winning a race across the fells.
11369
As he whizzes up and down, the infant manages to keep his legs and body upright.
He also clung on to one of his father's hands for extra support.
11370
Another mistake from Dean almost gifted the Owls a second goal but instead of running into the space he had available, Bus decided to shoot from outside the box and could not keep his effort on target.
11371
'Consequently some people who have never tried tobacco cigarettes try e-cigarettes but only a few use them at least monthly, suggesting they are unattractive to people who do not smoke.
11372
Arsene Wenger has yet to decide whether to offer Abou Diaby a new contract despite his injury troubles .
2013 .
Thigh Muscle Strain, August 3 .
11373
Happy family:
Jenna's fellow Today show hosts were thrilled about her news, and were quick to congratulate the soon-to-be mother-of-two .
Ha.
11374
It is not the first time the bookmaker has produced a controversial advert ahead of a major racing festival.
It was inspired by loutish racegoers fighting at Ascot.
11375
Police raided the property in December 2013 as part of Operation Enamel into historic claims he molested a string of youngsters.
11376
According to the Siberian Times, the new evidence was uncovered by Dr Sergey Leshchinsky, from Tomsk State University.
'Those who lagged behind the herd quickly became the prey of predators.'
11377
The actor, who is promoting his new film Avengers: Age of Ultron, was asked what he thought of Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu's claim that superhero movies were 'cultural genocide'.
11378
Alan Pardew could be a candidate for manager of the year with his record at Newcastle and Crystal Palace .
11379
Announcers couldn't help but chuckle at the course-crasher's escapades as he went into the water to retrieve a hat that had blown off in the wind and proceeded to lose his beer at the same time.
11380
Together with Myra Hindley, who died in prison in 2002, he tortured and murdered five children in Greater Manchester between 1963 and 1965.
11381
The climate controlled wine cellar with wall-to-wall wine racks and an abundance of shelving is a dream for any wine connoisseur .
11382
But that has not stopped them from winning over crowds at the zoo as they explore their new home.
The new babies are joined by two other youngsters who were born earlier in 2014.
11383
Citing Nevada's mandatory testing of legal prostitutes for sexually transmitted diseases, the Bunny Ranch also applauded Mrs. Clinton for recognizing 'the fact that responsible government oversight is a key to protecting the public's health from widespread disease.'
11384
Without going into specifics, Mr Shatner added he would need a ‘large, four-foot pipeline’ above ground to keep enough water flowing.
11385
Yesterday, another Germanwings plane was forced to make an unscheduled landing in Venice after a passenger and a flight attendant fell ill during the flight, the budget carrier says.
11386
Mourning:
Loved ones of victims previously attended a memorial event near the disaster site at the village of Le Vernet in the French Alps.
11387
The importance of Saturday's match against Arsenal for Liverpool’s Champion’s League ambitions cannot be overstated.
11388
When investigators came to interview the 16-year-old girl, she allegedly admitted to her relationship with the married teacher nearly 50 years her senior.
11389
On his way: Harry will deploy to Australia next week and will begin with a visit to the Australian War Memorial .
Harry last headed Down Under in 2013 when he took part in Navy celebrations .
11390
This is horse s**t!'
As one voice off camera tries to calm the actor down, Quaid yells, 'Don't f**king Dennis me' before storming off the set .
11391
Anne-Louise van den Nieuwenhof (right) died suddenly just six days after giving birth to her baby daughter (centre) ‘After such immense joy, there is now such sadness and pain over this tragic loss,’ the page says.
11392
Meet Suma, one of Melbourne Zoo's aging orangutans who suffers from arthritis.
Doctors had to anaesthetise Suma in order to check how her arthritis has progressed since 2013 .
11393
Jordan managed to catch and eat fish, according to the Coast Guard, and despite reports of a shoulder injury and dehydration, he arrived at a hospital in good condition and refused treatment, a facility spokesman said.
11394
Graham White, 76, from Penarth said the changes to the property looks 'more like a children's playscheme'
She said: 'I can see how residents might not like it.
11395
Derbyshire wicketkeeper Tom Poynton has been rewarded for his successful return from injury .
11396
’ According to Davies, the Clermont gameplan is simple: build an early lead, ease the pressure and force Saracens to run the ball rather than kick.
11397
He played local.
'He sometimes tells me things and I'm like dad, shut up, you were playing against drunken keepers on Sunday mornings.'
11398
Detroit restaurant Katoi, which opens in June, is hiring staff, but the billboards are more about advertising Detroit's entrepreneurial and creative opportunities, said Courtney Henriette .
11399
As the virtual teacher begins telling him off, the real teacher leans out and 'pushes' the screen back .
one flying past the virtual screen and into the room.
11400
Leicester City midfielder Esteban Cambiasso (left) says beating relegation would be like winning a trophy .
Nigel Pearson's side face West Ham United at home on Saturday.
11401
According to the Independent, Mr Powell was arrested after detectives were called to his home on Thursday.
Police were called to the scene at around 8pm on Thursday.
11402
Manager Sam Allardyce has said that filling the stadium is the most important thing for any football club .
‘The most important thing at a football club is to fill the stadium.
11403
A bizarre performance from Stan Wawrinka saw Grigor Dimitrov breeze through 6-1, 6-2 to his first masters quarter-final of the season.
11404
Manchester United's humiliation of their neighbours City continued their outstanding record against the Barclays Premier League's top seven this season.
11405
A Geneva-based UN High Commissioner for Human Rights urged officials not to carry out the execution, claiming that Qamaruzzman's trial did not meet ‘fair international’ standards.
11406
It reads: ‘Despite repeated requests, Labour leader Ed Miliband decided not to take up IPSE’s offer to outline his views on the UK’s 4.5 million self-employed.’
11407
Twitter's top lawyer has admitted it has been ‘inexcusably slow’ in tackling online trolls who make the lives of others a misery.
11408
F1 races have started to move away from Europe towards lucrative venues in the Middle East .
More races are heading to Asia and the Middle East.
11409
'I've had to fax death certificates and affidavits to all of the creditors and fly in to meet with the police and lots of other stuff I didn't need to deal with while I'm mourning my sister's death,' she said.
11410
The Sun revealed that the £5 note is set to be redesigned with Simon Cowell's face on it after a public poll to find the most popular celebrities.
11411
When news arrived that the boat had sunk, Alagie had to call Mr Ceesay's family.
Alagie is still in Libya and his family is desperate for him to return home safely.
11412
'Some people at City are trying to blame Yaya for what has happened this season,' he said.
'He won the title with the team left behind by (predecessor) Roberto Mancini.'
11413
'I find it difficult to comprehend how my life has been ruined by a male from Hartlepool, who punched me for no reason.'
11414
Authorities said the Northern California boy fell asleep in the backseat of the car and was kidnapped when the vehicle was stolen .
11415
McKerry's case was even brought to the attention of then Prime Minister Tony Blair, who later announced a crackdown on so called 'bail-bandits'.
11416
Pacquiao was joined in Los Angeles by his ever-expanding family; wife Jinkee and their five children - Princess, Emmanuel Jnr, Israel, Queen Elizabeth and Michael.
11417
It also designed the websites of Harriet Harman, Andy Burnham and Tristram Hunt.
Tory MPs last night claimed Labour’s Argentinian link was an ‘embarrassment’ for Miliband.
11418
But when he sat down with her, he reassured her: 'Don't worry, I am not going to harm you.'
However, he did ask her to call the police and reporters.
11419
Peter Moore was shocked after receiving the document from HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) last week.
I need to know details of the person responsible for finalising their affairs.
11420
'It will be a tough game at Hull,' said Rodgers.
'The idea is to go and get the victory to put the pressure on the teams above.
11421
Tiger Woods was spotted practising at Augusta on Tuesday and is said to have returned to the course .
Woods has dropped out of the top 100 for the first time in almost 19 years .
11422
The family of a Bristol woman killed on holiday in France by a parasite-ridden historic tree has been paid £86,000 in compensation.
11423
Horrific:
To the Almon-Kok family, she is very much still with them.
Speaking this week, Jones conceded: 'We all remember what we were doing.
11424
A lost iPhone was reunited with its owner after police  posted a series of bizarre photos on the woman's Facebook page in a bid to track her down.
11425
Here against West Ham he scored his 20th of the campaign.
With managers such as Jurgen Klopp now available for hire, these stories are poorly timed for Pellegrini.
11426
The photographer said that a watching crowd burst out laughing when the tiger fell over .
'One tiger tried to reach it but he lost his balance on the slippery icy and fell backwards.
11427
Now we are going to have Debuchy back and I am happy for him, but when you get your chance, you need to do the best you can.
11428
The incident occurred while Bou Bou's mom Alecia Phonesavanh was staying with her husband, their three daughters and their baby son in the living room of her sister-in-law's home just outside of Atlanta.
11429
These haunting images show the partially-submerged ruins of a church where a town was swallowed by an artificial lake 50 years ago.
11430
The decision to dismiss the Celtic keeper was correct.
On a diet of three games a week the champions elect looked tired and leggy, their bench options limited.
11431
The flavoured tobacco smells sweet, making it an enjoyable and relaxing experience, according to enthusiasts.
It has been the cause of 17 deaths since 2006.
11432
A pair of strange glowing white lights were filmed floating perilously close to the smoke and gas clouds from the eruption .
Armageddon type reaction.'
11433
Toxicology results show that an off-duty New Jersey officer was drunk when he caused a wrong-way crash that killed another officer and a friend on a New York City highway, a Staten Island prosecutor said Monday.
11434
Tottenham have registered their interest in Marseille star Andre Ayew.
Inter Milan are understood to be leading the race to land the Ayew.
11435
'One cub a year is brought in when dogs get down in the set,' she said.
When they came in eight weeks ago they were 80g - carers have watched them grow to 1.1kg .
11436
Eating whole fruit is more nutritious.'
Price: £14.95 for a Black + Blum Charcoal Filter water bottle .
Price: £2.45 for a 330ml bottle of Seva maple water .
11437
7.
10.
12.
14.
15.
The executing commander brings down the sword as a gesture to tell the firing squad to perform simultaneous shooting .
22.
11438
From there, the team hasn't stopped growing - travelling on its own path.'
'Porto haven't lost a game in the Champions League this season and I'm happy to be facing Lopetegui.'
11439
'She frequently jokes about the fair skin that runs in her family and difficult it can be to manage in extreme environments.'
It's the second comment by Armytage that's raised eyebrows in recent weeks.
11440
It comes after police focused their search on a pond near Carrsville last week after receiving a tip that her cell phone may be below its surface.
11441
Ruffling feathers:
But the little owl's sibling rivalry gets the better of him, as he start pulling at his sibling's wing with one small claw .
11442
A new book has now archived the changing face of Italian fashion, from the post-war years to the 21st century.
A model is pictured in Italy in 1953.
11443
Henry VIII may have been conceived in the bed .
In 2013, the battle-scarred skeleton of Richard III was discovered by archaeologists in a car park in Leicester.
11444
The gnome is next to the legs of George Harrison, who is wearing red on the album art.
The model has emerged for sale almost 50 years later .
11445
As the lions continue to taunt the hippo, the large mammal turns around and charges out of the water towards the two young lions .
11446
He broke down in tears.
He told the sheriff he needed medical help.
'He was a nice neighbor.
Moore was cited then for not having a driver's license.
11447
Following the release of the coroners report, the Cleland's are now campaigning to see cyber bullying taken more seriously in Victoria and around Australia.
11448
'She knew he was going to leave and indicated he was going to Virginia.'
Hughes' stunt raised security concerns as lawmakers said the incident exposed a security gap.
11449
According to the poll, English people may decide they would rather Scotland was given independence than be ruled by Left-wing Scottish Nationalists in harness with Labour.
11450
Lloyd says both sailors were members of Naval Special Warfare Group 2.
Marihugh and Lewis both served in the U.S. Marine Corps before they enlisted in the Navy.
11451
Belgian attacker Mirallas was one of Everton’s top performers in the first half of the campaign .
Mirallas has made no secret of his ambition to play in the Champions League .
11452
It can also reportedly be used to increase fuel efficiency and even reduce noise on take-off and landing.
The wing can bend from -2 degrees up to 30 degrees.
11453
The driver, who is named Ashley X after changing his surname by deed poll, was caught on camera driving his Honda sports car at 67mph on a 50mph section of the M11 in Essex in 2009.
11454
'The performances from United in the past month have been absolutely outstanding in any season.
In the last four weeks he has settled into a 4-3-3.
11455
'We are expecting a lot of visitors over the next few days.'
 He added that the flamingo stopped on its journey in the salt lake to feed on brine shrimp.
11456
They say the animal's cerebral cortex is 'like a mini-Internet'.
The team used studies of rat brains because of the sheer volume of detailed information available.
11457
An aerial view of the staircase shows the house's four floors, with golden sculptures found on shelves the whole way down .
11458
The father and daughter have been recognised by Guinness World Records and have tongues a whopping 8.6cm and 7.3cm wide respectively .
11459
Zara Phillips has had to pull out of the Kentucky three-day event after High Kingdom suffered an injury .
11460
Celebrity residents and good commuter links to the City have made Esher in Surrey the country’s number one income tax hotspot, research shows.
11461
She was discovered at the Court Street property in Edgartown by owner Mark Conklin on April 17.
When he confronted her she claimed that she owned the house.
11462
Ed Miliband's proposed change in the rules on 'non-doms' would cost Britain billions, experts warned last night.
The Chancellor said: 'Labour's policy is a total shambles.
11463
Andy Erlam pledged to end years of 'Rotten Borough' politics.
Tower Hamlets was so corrupt the government sent in independent commissioners to run it.
11464
Uncle Teng asks passengers for a picture in lieu of a tip in Shenyang, China .
'Before she dropped off, she gracefully took a selfie with me and told me that it was a good day.’
11465
Currier was arrested for operating under the influence and aggravated assault - she was later released on bail pending a court appearance.
11466
I don't know what angle he is looking from because everyone else could see it was a penalty.
We have a massive game at Dens Park on Wednesday.
11467
The 'battle of Holland' was nothing short of sensational as Raymond van Barnevald defeated World No 1 Michael van Gerwen - earning the bragging rights and giving himself a fighting chance of qualifying for the showdown at the 02 Arena.
11468
The judge said that he was sure that although Rojano-Nieto sodomized the girl and covered her mouth so she couldn't scream out, 'there was no violence or callous disregard for the victim's well-being'.
11469
The jury was not aware of what had happened outside the courthouse when they decided they could not reach a verdict in the 75-year-old's case, according to New England Cable News.
11470
The ship had been set to leave Lisbon at 7pm on Tuesday night with its 489 passengers heading back to Bristol Avonmouth after a round-trip tour that took in La Coruna in Spain, the Azores, and Madeira.
11471
Theft:
One teacher revealed how Irlam Primary School is in serious need of more money.
Rutty was also ordered to pay costs of £500.
11472
'The CCTV shows all of them entering the property together and all playing some part in the birds' suffering.
His bird breeding plays a major part of his life.'
11473
They encouraged students to 'go about your day without telling everyone about how 'different' you are', according to WKBN.
We just don't give a f***.'
11474
Neymar will be hoping to impress on pitch as Barcelona look to extend their lead at the top of La Liga .
11475
The most recent incarnation is played by Scottish actor Peter Capaldi.
‘I confess I don’t watch much film or television drama but I’m aware of the predominance of white, male roles.
11476
Haunting:
After a ceasefire was called in February, Dutch experts returned the following month, yet still much debris remains at the site .
11477
The drive was formed in response to the Trojan Horse scandal in which Muslim hardliners allegedly tried to impose an Islamic agenda on schools in Birmingham.
11478
A magazine claims Nick Loeb has filed a lawsuit against his ex-fiancee Sofia Vergara in a bid to prevent her from destroying two cryopreserved female embryos created through IVF, pictured here in 2011 .
11479
But now a team of researchers has studied millions of such online posts to identify common traits among these users.
11480
The feeling of fresh air is wonderful.'
Jackie told NBC Connecticut that her daughter has long held the belief that she does not want 'poison' in her body.
11481
Hans-Wilhelm Muller-Wohlfahrt (right) quit the club, claiming the medical staff had been blamed for defeat .
'We can't win every match 3-0 or 4-0 in this situation.
11482
Spain international Fabregas also took a whack on his leg during the clash on Saturday .
While an Arsenal player in 2008, Fabregas suffered a broken nose playing for Spain.
11483
Pulis is keen on bolstering his forward options in the summer despite remaining confident of keeping hold of star striker Saido Berahino.
11484
Ashton was nowhere near getting the ball, which made Youngs' action even more senseless.
Billy Vunipola scored after Youngs' exit and Marcelo Bosch scored after the break.
11485
He previously pleaded guilty at Durham Crown Court to attempted robbery and court officials confirmed he had been jailed for six years after the hearing today.
11486
Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of Bishop Robert Finn who pleaded guilty to failing to report a suspected priestly child abuser .
11487
'This new molecular catalyst will hopefully play a large role in helping create hydrogen from renewable energy sources such as solar power.
11488
‘We need to find a solution.
However, he hopes that the club make a swift announcement on the future of the managerial position.
11489
And that more than anything else convinced me that it had been a genuine accident.'
Peter says Claire's death nearly destroyed their family but now they are rebuilding their lives .
