0
And there will be future outbreaks.
Even by the most optimistic estimates for population immunity, 80 million or so Americans are still vulnerable.
1
While cause of death can sometimes be difficult to ascertain, and political pressures can lead to miscounting, excess deaths can indicate the broad scope of a health emergency.
2
Providers who give off-label vaccinations in the US may not be protected by legislation that keeps them from being held liable in the case of a rare adverse event.
3
The Danish health authority said the country’s third infection wave was waning “due to the large population immunity”, meaning “we can cope with increasing infection without getting serious illness”.
4
Heineken has said beer prices will go up as it faces “crazy increases” in the cost of ingredients, energy and transport.
5
In 2015, the Guardian found that law enforcement in Kern county killed more people relative to its population than in any other county in the US.
6
“Dr Robert Karas and Karas Correctional Health have effectively treated … cases [in the jail] which have resulted in zero fatalities from the virus,” said a resolution recently passed by a local court’s jail and enforcement committee.
7
The decision isn’t between getting vaccinated and doing nothing, she said.
Being consistent and visible within the community is important, Autar said.
8
She also cited the devastating impact of diseases such as white-nose syndrome, which, despite scientists’ protection efforts, has killed more than 90% of three North America bat species, according to a study in the journal Conservation Biology.
9
However, the anti-vaccine songs, which contain lyrics in some cases far more extreme than those podcasts, did not carry a content warning.
10
Having met their targets for the first year, it was widely expected that the charity would be tasked with running the programme.
11
HMRC said its estimate of what will be recovered did not mean that it has written off the remainder, which it intends to pursue.
4 May 2020
All loans were processed by 31 May. 3 December 2021 A National Audit Office report describes government funding for counter-fraud on the bounce back loans “inadequate” and highlights £4.9bn estimated BBLS fraud losses.
12
While he now has a brief respite from the threat of a confidence vote by Tory MPs, with the Commons in recess for 10 days, Johnson faces the prospect of at least some staff being fined for breaking lockdown rules, with police saying this seems likely.
13
That’s when the man found out he was talking with someone in Ohio.
“We track calls and will charge anyone deliberately interfering with emergencies,” the police said.
14
The drugmaker’s total revenues increased by 41% to a record $37.4bn last year, boosted by cancer drugs.
In the final quarter, sales rose 62% to $12bn, a quarterly record.
15
The pep talk worked.
A lot of her classmates are having trouble, she said.
“I think a lot fewer people are going to graduate from college,” she said.
16
More often, paraprofessionals or other support staff will step in to cover for absent teachers, she said.
She worries about the loss of routine and what it means for students.
17
Teachers’ unions have joined health experts in calling for science-based recommendations in order to keep educators and students safe, and to keep the virus from forcing further school closures caused by worker shortages.
18
Firms also need to understand the government’s plan should there be further public health challenges that require a return to restrictions.”
19
GSK’s vaccines sales dropped 10% to £1.8bn last year, as countries’ normal vaccination programmes were disrupted by the Covid-19 vaccination drive, hitting sales of the drugmaker’s shingles and meningitis jabs.
20
Tom Marazzo, an acting spokesperson for the convoy, said on Monday that the protesters wanted to go home but would not leave until the “job is done”.
21
“If you talk to individuals at our local hospitals that are treating patients after Dr Karas has treated them, they are very ill,” said justice of the peace Eva Madison.
22
It has now received emergency approval in 40 countries.
According to Reuters, Pfizer has sold the vaccine to African countries at $3 to $10 a shot.
23
When European regulators declared that the vaccine’s benefits outweighed its risks, most lifted their suspension – but put age restrictions on the vaccine, the BBC said.
24
An examination of 20 US urban areas found the number of deaths among people living without housing shot up by 77% in the five years ending in 2020.
25
Ek said it was Rogan’s decision to remove a number of past episodes from The Joe Rogan Experience podcast, following discussions with the music streaming platform and his own reflections on some of the content in the show, including the usage of racially insensitive language.
26
According to Dr Yercin Mamani, former director of the departmental health service in Cochabamba, vaccine access is no longer the main problem.
27
Hospital overcrowding is also higher in the US than other countries, Ranney said.
“A lot of that comes down to: how much illness and death will people accept?”
28
and
But Spiegelhalter adds that his analysis has also shown that the pandemic has been a net lifesaver for younger people.
29
The ‘get boosted’ message was heralded by the prime minister and recent events have meant that trust in politicians has decreased, undermining the ‘get boosted’ message.”
30
John Treharne, the founder and director of the Gym Group, which operates 190 low-cost venues around the UK, says that the entire UK market is now “pretty close” to pre-Covid levels and could be back to normal by Easter.
31
I’m active in politics here and found out lots of people were having complications and dropping dead.
Her radical views on the issue outweigh even her faith in Trump.
32
Experts have warned the pandemic and eroding trust in US institutions has fueled extremism in local politics and hostility against officials.
It’s not going to be peaceful much longer.
It’s going to be real …
33
Glister-Berg, a smoker, was in poor health, and was apparently unvaccinated, according to her daughter.
We need to double down and come up with new ones,” he said.
34
The US economy is wrestling with soaring inflation and signs of an economic slowdown after last year’s strong rebound.
“America is back to work,” Biden said.
35
Every household is to be informed of the new law via post by 15 March, after which police will start monitoring people’s immunisation status via spot checks and issuing fines of 600 euros, rising to up to 3,600 euros in case of non-compliance.
36
However, the company added it was “confident in our ability to manage any short-term volatility” and “well-positioned” for the summer.
37
India’s official death toll from Covid-19 has passed 500,000, even as many experts flag underreporting of cases across the country.
38
“People are also spreading out their trips during the day and more people are walking and biking on roads designed for cars.
39
Now that delay is catching up with patients, Resler said.
Children’s hospitals have also not been immune from the strain caused by the Omicron variant.
40
The vast majority of all active-duty troops have received at least one dose.
Roughly 79 uniformed military personnel across the different services have died from Covid-19.
41
Doctors have already begun to prepare for the impact the Omicron surge could have on the numbers of long Covid cases.
When asked what her pain level is now, she said with little hesitation: “Zero!”
42
Rob Dobson, a director at IHS Markit, said: “UK manufacturing made a solid start to 2022, showing encouraging resilience on the face of the Omicron wave, with growth of output accelerating as companies reported fewer supply delays.
43
After the session in the Commons, during which she gave a statement about Russia, Truss also attended a packed meeting with Boris Johnson, Tory MPs and ministers on Monday evening at Portcullis House in Westminster, where she also did not wear a face mask.
44
The airline cut its capacity for January by a third after December passenger numbers dropped 1.5 million below forecast after Omicron hit travel.
45
Gray, a senior civil servant, criticised the culture in Johnson’s Downing Street that allowed social gatherings to take place during lockdown, which were “difficult to justify”.
46
The country this week also became the first EU member state to make vaccination legally compulsory for adults under a law making those who refuse the jab liable for fines of up to €3,600 from mid-March, after an introductory phase.
47
Another reason to create a Covid commission would be to garner high-profile support from all branches of government, which could bolster public trust in institutions, Rozenshtein said.
48
It found “clear evidence” that economic stressors were associated with both the onset and the escalation of abuse.
In the US, the domestic violence hotline is 1-800-799-SAFE (7233).
49
The vaccine sceptic and anti-lockdown campaigner Laurence Fox has said he has coronavirus.
In another tweet posted on Sunday, he said he was on day two of the virus.
50
“If these studies were done well”, Parikh said, “and really do show in these settings that ivermectin is not impactful … I just can’t see any reason to continue this debate.”
51
“In the short term it will lift the spirits of aged care workers,” the HSU national president, Gerard Hayes, said.
52
Even if they learn that Joanna was vaccinated, the family’s activities will still depend in part on the prevalence of the virus, he said.
53
“Irresponsible people are spreading lies that are costing people their lives,” she said.
According to Mitchell’s Spotify page, she has 3.7m monthly listeners to her music.
54
Scientists have developed a highly sensitive Covid test that relies only on low-tech kit and a smartphone, which could be used as a quicker, cheaper alternative to PCR testing.
55
James Tucker, an analyst at the ONS, said that to suggest the lower figure “represents the real extent of deaths from the virus is both factually incorrect and highly misleading”.
56
“The government was not involved in the decision to accredit Greensill,” he said.
A parliamentary inquiry found that Cameron showed a “significant lack of judgment” but did not break lobbying rules.
57
“We encourage Ms Palin to join the 98% of New Yorkers who report they have followed guidance on isolation and have helped New York City stop the spread.”
58
The report is part of the GAO’s evaluation of the government’s pandemic response.
Some of those address issues raised by the GAO report.
59
At PMQs, Boris Johnson contrasted being a leader with being a lawyer.
Not another Downing Street exposé, I thought, seeing the phrase “chaotic orbit” with comments by Gray.
60
In December, Keaton’s caseworker told her the agency had found evidence of neglect, based on the school’s allegations of inconsistent summer school attendance in 2019 – allegations Keaton says are “completely false”.
61
In a statement, the company said the pandemic had a “significant and prolonged impact” on the profitability of the business and that no bonuses were paid in 2020, when its board also took a temporary cut in fees and salaries.
62
It also accepted at least £10.6m in government aid through furlough payments and grants for its Bathstore chain, which was forced to close for many weeks under government high street lockdowns.
63
Zients also told reporters that approximately 85% of the Covid-19 antiviral pills that the US has purchased has been directly distributed to states.
64
Terry Pratchett’s estate has authorised Monroe to use the Vimes Boots index as the name of the new price index, which is intended to document the “insidiously creeping prices” of basic food products.
65
Those quirks aside, the WFM’s (Work From Mum’s, that is) arrangement is paying dividends.
Back to that jar of strawberry jam – the girls refused to eat it.
66
For the first time, we show that the lower vaccination coverage in some ethnic groups also contributes to the elevated risk of Covid-19 death, particularly in the black African and black Caribbean groups.”
67
“This comes after a year of tremendous expansion of both milk donors and milk volume donations, which happened in 2020 as the pandemic gained momentum.”
Meanwhile, the pandemic has increased the need for donor milk.
68
Downing Street has not yet seen the report by Sue Gray into alleged lockdown-breaking parties in government, Liz Truss has said.
69
“I welcome the Met’s decision to conduct its own investigation because I believe this will help to give the public the clarity it needs and help to draw a line under matters,” he told the House of Commons.
70
Earlier this month, the state health department said the mandate would be in place until 1 February.
The ruling came as the Omicron wave that gripped New York state appears to be easing.
71
Ferguson’s family have said they are unsure of what to do next given his refusal to receive the Covid-19 vaccine.
“It’s his body.
72
In 2015, Kennedy apologized after using the word “holocaust” to describe children whom he believes were hurt by vaccines.
73
Bolsonaro – whose shock 2018 election was turbocharged by Carvalho’s extreme and often expletive-ridden teachings – lamented the loss of “one of the greatest thinkers in our country’s history” and declared a national day of mourning.
74
China’s growth forecast has been reduced by 0.8 points to 4.8%.
“The emergence of new Covid-19 variants could prolong the pandemic and induce renewed economic disruptions.
75
The city government said Palin should “follow the rules just like everyone else”.
On Monday night, she confirmed her Covid test and told Fox News she felt “totally fine”.
76
The invite was billed as a “Christmas party”, but government insiders said it was a virtual quiz and Case only passed through the event on the way to his office.
77
The US government will begin distribution of 400m free N95 masks to pharmacies and community health centers this week, in the Biden administration’s latest effort to combat a surge in cases caused by the Omicron Covid-19 variant.
78
“I’ve visited 1962 East Germany with my father,” Kennedy Jr told the anti-vaxxer crowd, “and met people who had climbed the [Berlin] Wall and escaped.
79
At one point in the pandemic, he said, being a nursing home worker was the most dangerous job in America, based on the death rates.
80
“You never want to be overconfident when you’re dealing with this virus, because it has certainly surprised us in the past.
“That’s the best-case scenario.
81
John Lewis has told staff they will get full sick pay regardless of their Covid vaccination status, saying that it doesn’t “believe it’s right” to treat jabbed and unjabbed workers differently.
82
“Both the lower VAT rate for hospitality and the rent moratorium will finish at the end of March,” Nicholls says.
Is the dangerous phase really over?
83
Many people are unable or unwilling to seek care for symptoms that do not seem like emergencies, Pollack added, saying that had led to delays in diagnosing conditions such as diabetes or high blood pressure that get worse the longer they go untreated.
84
After the meeting, school superintendent Antonio Fox said in a letter: “Page county public schools does not take these kinds of statements lightly.”
85
The most recent quality-of-service reports for Royal Mail show it is still failing to hit regulated targets, but the company said its performance is improving.
86
“Reviewing data on the impact of Omicron, the participants concluded that current vaccines offer less protection against infection and mild disease caused by this variant.
87
Horta-Osório attended the Wimbledon tennis tournament on 10 and 11 July 2021, after flying from Switzerland to the UK.
Credit Suisse declined to comment.
88
Children are also being seen with reinfections.
In other words, a previous recent infection could well have been Delta, while their latest is Omicron.
89
CHPI’s research shows the company was the biggest private beneficiary of funds spent on cancer care and cardiology direct from NHS hospital trusts in London between December 2020 and December 2021.
90
“We feel good about right-sizing our production, and, as we evolve to more seasonal demand curves, we are resetting our production levels for sustainable growth,” Foley said.
91
It welcomed the government’s decision to lift plan B restrictions but warned that consumer confidence might take longer to recover.
92
That’s according to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) records, which lists 5,981 unruly passenger reports last year.
93
The conservative-green coalition government of chancellor Karl Nehammer on Thursday morning unveiled what it called its “vaccination lottery” programme, which will run from 15 March until the end of the year and cost the government approximately €1.4bn.
94
“The ‘innovative technology’ they describe on their website does not reflect contemporary understanding of how biochemistry works,” Saunders said.
95
State public education officials say volunteers from the national guard and state agencies can qualify for substitute teaching with as little as two hours of training and a two-step background check.
96
While we appreciate that there may be differing views, workplace safety is an area where we and the union that represents our associates cannot compromise,” Valade added.
97
For example, multi-system inflammatory disease in children is one rare but severe outcome from Covid infection that “can be serious and fatal”, Offit said.
98
Addressing the brewing threat at the Ukrainian border, where Russia has amassed tens of thousands of troops, Biden predicted that Moscow would invade Ukraine and promised Vladimir Putin would pay a “dear price” if he moved forward with an attack.
99
Sources told WFTV that Pino was placed on administrative leave after he emailed staff members at the Orange county department of health regarding Covid-19 vaccination rates on 4 January.
100
The protest comes as schools across the country have struggled with the latest, Omicron-fueled wave of the coronavirus pandemic.
But students in Oakland around the country are alleging that resources have not been distributed equitably.
“Teaching is already a stressful job.
101
That would be enough, they said, to “lift 2.3 billion people out of poverty; make enough vaccines for the world and deliver universal healthcare and social protection for all the citizens of low and lower-middle-income countries (3.6 billion people).”
102
The Biden administration quietly launched its website for Americans to request free at-home Covid-19 tests on Tuesday, a day before the site was scheduled to officially go live.
103
In view of their results, the researchers argue that better public information about nocebo responses may improve Covid vaccine uptake by reducing the concerns that make some people hesitant.
104
From there he joined US investment bank Goldman Sachs, before Spain’s Santander took him on as a chief executive of a Portuguese subsidiary in 1993.
105
Murthy warned that infections are set to continue to increase in much of the country and the “next few weeks will be tough”.
The CDC, too, has faced criticism.
106
The medical board has been investigating complaints against Karas over the jail’s use of ivermectin and is expected to discuss the investigation’s findings at its February meeting.
107
Bancel has previously said that people may need a fourth shot of a vaccine this autumn as protection from booster shots declines over the coming months.
108
The alleged UK breach emerged in December, after Reuters reported it had been discovered through a preliminary investigation by Credit Suisse’s legal team.
109
Asked why he had caveated his argument with “implicitly”, a word he had also used in earlier interviews, Zahawi said: “I’m repeating to you what I heard the prime minister say at the dipatch box in the chamber for his statement [last Wednesday].
110
Even after a 99% levy, the top 10 billionaires would be $8bn better off between them than they were before the pandemic, the charity said.
111
With many Tory MPs waiting until the Gray report comes out, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said there was no need to wait because it was already “obvious” that Johnson “broke the law … [and] then lied about what happened”.
112
The current seven day positivity rate sits at over 35%, according to the state health department.
15,803 have died in the state from the virus since the pandemic began.
113
The player’s father, Srđan, said the episode amounted to “an attempted assassination with 50 bullets to the chest”,
” Divna Vukadin said the Australian move was clearly politically motivated.
114
On 21 December, Sicilian investigators uncovered another alleged scam with dozens of anti-vaccination holdouts, including a police officer, paying a nurse up to €400 to give them fake jabs.
115
I was also sent a cheque in the post on 16 December and it still hasn’t arrived.”
A Royal Mail spokesperson said the number of affected areas had been reduced over the past week.
116
An Opinium poll for the Observer will spread further alarm in Conservative ranks.
“But if he tries to spin his way out of a critical report, he will lose my support,” he said.
117
At one point, the US was vaccinating four million people in a single day.
With so many children still unvaccinated, schools should have gone remote this month for a few weeks.
118
Moderna and the National Institutes of Health are in a dispute over who should get credit for specific discoveries that led to a Covid-19 vaccine which has been delivered to more than 73 million Americans.
119
“Accordingly, these school programs as currently structured are ineligible uses of (Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds).” “
120
” With barely enough time to draw breath, Taufa was then called in for the opening night show in front of an audience packed with VIPs, fellow actors and critics.
121
However, Texas has reported a test positivity rate of more than 35% over the past week, WFAA.com reported, as the Texas department of state and health services said “Covid has never spread this fast” in the state.
122
“We are pleased to see continued strong demand among audiences for cinema experiences, supported by a slate of high-quality and high-performing movies.”
123
In Alabama, on Tuesday, the state reported a record number of children hospitalized with coronavirus due to the highly transmissible variant.
124
The policy will be fully implemented from Monday, according to local media, when passengers will be required to show proof of vaccination.
125
In New York City the number of new cases has flattened in recent days, the New York Times reported, while New Jersey and Maryland have seen a slight decrease in the number of infections.
126
Trade unions expressed concern about the move, while employment lawyers said companies that introduced such policies could face discrimination claims from staff.
127
Halfords also expects sales of motoring products to reduce in the coming months, as consumers take fewer domestic holidays.
128
Concerns about the environmental impact of fast fashion have also sparked more interest in M&S, which is known for its better quality, more durable garments.
129
There’s no movement.
We’re seeing people who are getting Covid for a second time, including among staff who had it in the first wave.
130
As a result of the shortage, the Red Cross, which supplies 40% of the country’s blood supply, has had to limit blood product distributions to hospitals.
131
Most cruise companies are requiring passengers to be fully vaccinated and tested before setting sail, likely helping to limit the severity of outbreaks.
132
Authorities said even as Omicron shatters records for new cases, they are hopeful the surge will quickly subside, and said the US needs to focus on ensuring hospital systems do not collapse amid the surge.
133
Another contract was signed with Ayanda Capital, a London-based investment firm, whose contract, along with that of PestFix, was challenged by GLP.
134
The total amount of government assistance booked by Homebase has previously been estimated at up to £40m.
It said the plants had been donated to charities and good causes.
135
The measures just need to be taken, Thornton said.
And whatever measures are put in place now will help address future surges, Bright said.
136
In further evidence that the UK property market is flourishing, the estate agent Winkworth also released figures on Wednesday lifting its profit outlook.
137
O’Farrell also said that FFP2 masks supplied by Ayanda “have not been distributed into the NHS”.
And the court has now held that, unsurprisingly, the lane was illegal.
138
In recent weeks, governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have also introduced more restrictions on consumers eating out and drinking inside hospitality venues.
139
Although cases are rising in a straight line from a daily average of about 2,400 a month ago to more than 130,000 now, authorities say they are not unduly worried.
140
However, the prime minister has indicated he is in favour of further reducing the quarantine time to five days, if backed by scientific evidence.
141
The surge comes as cases rise across California due to the Omicron variant.
Forty-nine prison staff have died of Covid.
142
On Tuesday, 600,000 boxes of rapid tests are set to be distributed to Quebec amid growing frustration from residents that the tools needed to combat the pandemic are unavailable.
143
At the Senate hearing, Fauci was asked for an update on the effect of the virus on vaccinated people compared with unvaccinated people.
144
Another No 10 source told the Guardian they also mentioned at the time that the 20 May party was not advisable.
He’s not uptight,” they claimed.
145
In comparison, Farrar was paid £515,216 last year, up from £483,788 in 2020.
Wellcome also helped fund the Covid vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca.
146
“In a time of high debt, global cooperation will be essential to help expand the financial resources of developing economies so they can achieve green, resilient, and inclusive development,” said Mari Pangestu, the Bank’s managing director for development policy and partnerships.
147
As Evans was speaking, the PACAC published a letter from Geidt, who criticised Johnson last week for failing to disclose a WhatsApp exchange with the Tory peer who funded a makeover of the Downing Street residence during an initial investigation.
148
And other viruses, such as Ebola, have become more dangerous over time.
Viruses aim to create as many copies of themselves and spread as widely as possible.
149
The guidelines, which will remain in effect until 1 February, are necessary “due to the critical staffing shortages currently being experienced across the health care continuum because of the rise in the Omicron variant”, the health department explained in a statement.
150
He said sales had risen in every part of the world, an unusual trend, with Greater China and the Americas remaining the two biggest markets, each at 30% of sales.
151
Vaccination rates continue to lag among children, and tests are in short supply.
“The classroom can easily become ground zero for a mass infection in the community,” Yi said.
152
The city has posted high rates of vaccination.
We do that by getting them vaccinated and getting them boosted.”
153
said owner Valentin Leleu.
At Lovely Day in Nolita, owner Kazusa Jibiki said that combined with rising overheads, Omicron was a cruel blow.
154
The photographer Joel Sartore, whose image of Rilu accompanied the announcement of the animal’s death, paid tribute in his own post.
155
A Houston mother has been charged after allegedly placing her 13-year-old son in the trunk of her car in attempt to isolate him after he tested positive for Covid-19, then took him to a drive-thru testing site.
According to a court document, the district’s director of health services, Bevin Gordon, was gathering information from vehicles in line for testing at a stadium when she discovered the 13-year-old in the trunk of a car.
156
According to Abernethy, four teachers at her school quit before winter break, and 25 staff were absent on the first day of school after the break, on 3 January, though student attendance was normal.
157
Justice Elena Kagan, who was previously solicitor general, said officials have shown “quite clearly that no other policy will prevent sickness and death to anywhere like the degree that this one will”.
158
Citigroup’s move comes as New York’s leadership announced a policy designed to hasten workers’ return to their desks in office buildings that are estimated to be just 30% full.
159
“This number will likely stay high and steadily increase,” said the governor of Okinawa, Denny Tamaki, who has publicly criticised the US military over its response to outbreaks at local bases.
160
The disruptions also raise alarms about risks to students.
With vaccines and regular virus testing, his administration has said there’s no reason to keep schools closed.
161
All companies affected by the pandemic were allowed to claim from the government’s Covid furlough scheme.
However, Ladbrokes has declined to repay the furlough money saved.
162
Riverford workers received a pay rise of more than 8% in the autumn, while the prices paid to growers would rise about 5% this season, Haward said.
“This would probably all be OK for us a business if it was short-lived but we expect all these costs to continue, so we had no choice but to reflect them in our prices.”
163
“Death rates are up 40% over what they were pre-pandemic,” he said, among working-age people between 18 and 64.
164
“While facing the strain of workforce challenges, ERs are being put under increased pressure to provide care,” the organization stated.
165
The USFJ said it “now requires no less than three negative Covid-19 tests upon travelling to Japan” including one within 24 hours of arrival.
166
… He’s a wicked man,” the progressive publican said of Brazil’s far-right leader, who claims not to have been vaccinated and has repeatedly undermined Brazil’s immunisation campaign.
167
“The current wave of Omicron is exacerbating the problem but we already had a serious staffing crisis, with a burnt-out workforce, 93,000 vacancies and no sign of any plan to address this.”
168
In Texas, children’s hospitalizations were described as “staggering”.
Indiana is one of the states calling in the national guard to help with hospital care and logistics.
169
The cancellation marks the latest development in an escalating battle over pandemic safety measures in the nation’s third-largest school district.
170
It is unclear how Russo obtained the vial of an approved Covid-19 vaccine, which only medical professionals and healthcare facilities are able to order, according to the Post.
171
With hard currency inflows cut in half over the last two years, antibiotics are now so scarce that 20 pills of amoxicillin trade on the black market for the equivalent of a month’s minimum state salary.
172
Japan’s government is poised to declare a quasi-state of emergency on the southern island of Okinawa, media reports said, after a Covid-19 outbreak traced to US military bases spread to the civilian population.
173
A statement by Greater Manchester Combined Authority said the temporary measure, affecting 17 hospitals from Tuesday, will not apply to cancer and urgent care, including cardiac surgery, vascular surgery and transplantation.
174
There is more space to work in the office and a separation from home,” he said.
“I can come in later to avoid peak travel time.
175
Amid the deepening crisis, schools and businesses are facing difficult decisions.
Omicron has also created chaos in the economy.
176
Cummins wrote that one issue at his trust was that “seriously sick patients are waiting too long to be admitted and there are many times when we are operating on a one in, one out basis”.
177
As the Houston Chronicle pointed out, “Before calling for federally funded testing sites, Crenshaw used to share wild posts to social media, before Greene took office, including posting action movie-style videos of him beating up Antifa members.”
178
He said: “Vaccination is holding up in terms of protection against severe disease, assisted by the fact that Omicron almost certainly is substantially less severe, but it still puts pressures on the health system.”
179
Overall unemployment rate
She also found that teachers are most likely to leave the labor force as compared to their counterparts in other industries.
180
The New York state health department said that Cuomo’s Covid-19 task force altered an official report and omitted 9,250 nursing home patients killed by coronavirus.
181
Hopson said it was striking that hospital bosses were “pointing to the fact” that outbreaks in care homes were not translating into hospital admissions.
182
Airlines canceled fewer than 300 US flights scheduled for Tuesday.
The Dallas-based airline anticipates even more operational challenges to come as the storm system pushes into the eastern seaboard.
183
Federal regulators on Monday decided they are also warranted for 12- to 15-year-olds, once enough time has passed since their last dose.
184
Greene said her account was suspended after she tweeted statistics from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, a government database which includes raw data.
185
“This is an amazing city,” the new mayor told ABC on Sunday.
We’re going to reinstitute a plainclothes anti-gun unit and zero in on those guns.”
186
“For that reason, the CDC made the judgement that it would be relatively low risk to get people out.
“We are pivoting based on where the urgency is located.
187
Coronavirus cases are increasing dramatically among teens and younger adults in southern Nevada.
“The vast majority of the Covid patients in our hospitals are unvaccinated.”
188
But she had decided not to get the booster.
“The hospitalisation numbers for people who were vaccinated compared with people who were unvaccinated were scary.
189
“We no longer need to identify and have public health manage every single case of the variant because for most people, that will result in relatively mild illness, so we need to focus our efforts and resources on our most vulnerable groups,” said Strang.
190
But programs at school have made me realize it is possible.
We’re hoping it will offer tools and equipment that actual scientists use.
191
I have always loved the thinnest spread of Marmite on a finger of toast or cream cracker, and since having a little daily have not been bitten as much.
192
New York City’s leaders are pushing ahead with plans for the annual New Year’s Eve party in Times Square despite record numbers of new Covid infections driven by the Omicron variant.
193
London’s leading index of blue-chip shares rallied by 14.3% during 2021, a year after falling by the same percentage in its worst drop since the 2008 financial crisis.
194
In the months preceding the holidays, airlines were wooing employees to ensure solid staffing, after furloughing or laying off thousands over the last 18 months as the pandemic crippled the industry.
195
This global retrospective shows, in graphics, the varying impact of Covid worldwide.
As vaccination campaigns started to cover the most vulnerable in wealthy nations, the impact was quick to see.
196
NHS: call for tests to be reserved for staff NHS staff are required to take twice weekly tests but are not given access to lateral flow tests from their institutions and must seek their own, after a change in guidance over the summer.
197
US airlines in particular are struggling with the Omicron surge because many are running schedules at or near pre-pandemic levels.
It added to almost 2,900 cancellations on Wednesday, the data showed.
198
“Passengers are responsible for ensuring they comply with all travel rules, including providing accurate information on their passenger locator form, and failure to do so could lead to a fine or imprisonment.
199
US health experts urged Americans to prepare for severe disruptions in coming weeks as the surge threatened hospitals, schools and other sectors impacting their daily lives.
200
Denmark, which has the world’s highest rate of infection per person, recorded a fresh record of 23,228 new infections, which authorities attributed in part to the large number of tests carried out after Christmas celebrations.
201
Nathan said that her response note to jurors would state that deliberations will continue “as needed, every day going forward … until you reach a verdict”.
202
The agency regards cruise ships as hubs of contagion, especially as the more contagious Omicron variant spreads.
203
The CDC announced Tuesday that more than 1.5m shots had been administered in the previous 24 hours.
However, Omicron’s surge has caused disruptions in US economy again.
204
Simply encouraging pregnant patients to get vaccinated is often not enough.
We need to provide people with a basis for why it’s safe,” Shah said.
205
US markets recovered much faster than those in the UK thanks to the abundance of giant New York-listed technology companies, whose dominance was cemented by people around the world working from home during pandemic lockdowns.
206
The figures show that US health authorities have administered 1,533,313 doses from a day earlier.
In the same time period, it said, adult Covid hospitalizations increased 29%.
207
One expert told the New York Times on Monday: “All 50 states are in the soup at the same time.
On Tuesday afternoon, jurors did not want to stay late.
208
These tests are a great way to determine if you are infectious.”
“The change is motivated by science demonstrating that the majority of transmission occurs early in the course of illness, generally in the one to two days prior to onset of symptoms and the two three days after,” the CDC said.
“It’s just another compromise as we learn to accept and live with this virus,” Tang said.
209
A new Covid variant derails the global economyIt
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are already warning of increased debt distress.
210
” These medications should work well against Omicron and other new variants, because unlike vaccines, they don’t target the part of the virus that tends to evolve.
211
The president and Fauci’s statement comes as health authorities on Monday shortened the recommended isolation time for Americans with asymptomatic cases to five days, down from the previous guidance of 10 days.
212
Geoff Barton, the general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, told the BBC that staff absences had been at “unsustainable” levels at some schools, with up to 25% of staff off in the week leading up to the Christmas break.
213
For Casey Morell, a journalist at NPR, lockdown isolation led to a similar effort to connect online in a unique way.
It has also enabled easier scheduling.
214
The California state epidemiologist Dr Erica Pan wrote on Twitter: “Unfortunately New York is seeing an increase in pediatric hospitalisations (primarily amongst the unvaccinated), and they have similar [five- to 11-year-old] vaccination rates.”
215
“The rise of flexible working coupled with affordability barriers have meant that a record 40% of first-time buyers now leave the capital to buy their first home,” she said.
216
The duty for the bracket was applied to the entire £460 order.
It finally offered to refund her a year later following contact from the Financial Ombudsman Service.
217
FlightAware does not say why flights are canceled.
Federal medical teams have already been sent to some hard-hit states, such as Michigan, in recent days.
218
Perhaps the most frequent question people now ask Monto is whether people will need a Covid vaccine “every six months”, especially in light of the recently discovered Omicron variant.
219
White House spokesman Kevin Munoz tweeted that Biden “will lift the temporary travel restrictions on Southern Africa countries” effective 31 December.
220
Razaqzada said: “Judging by the stock market rally this week, it appears as though investors are still confident that the ongoing recovery from the pandemic recession can survive the Omicron wave.”
221
“And at the minute I’ve got no support from the government to get those essentials.”
She urged ministers: “Please don’t forget about us.”
222
Photographer: Greg Kahn
Raw sewage leaks in Virginia have threatened the livelihoods of the few remaining Black oyster-people on the east coast.
223
Relying on vaccines alone also leaves out those who are struggling to access vaccines, or are unable to take them due to age or preexisting conditions.
224
Sir Patrick Vallance said it was not the responsibility of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) “to take a particular policy stance or to either spread gloom or give Panglossian optimism”.
225
The Hawaii Bowl was canceled Thursday on the eve of the game after Hawaii withdrew because of Covid-19, season-ending injuries and transfers.
“We hope that Hawaii players and staff get healthy soon.
226
Decisions based on limited information
The home tests should be used immediately before getting together, since infectiousness can change within hours.
227
The other case concerns whether the administration can require healthcare workers at facilities that treat federally funded Medicare and Medicaid patients to receive shots while litigation continues.
228
In this wave, it’s not a shortage of beds but a shortage of qualified workers to care for people in those beds that is raising alarm bells.
229
Biden told ABC that if he is “in good health” he would run for president again, especially in a rematch against Donald Trump.
“That’ll increase the prospect of running.”
230
Chocolate sales have really gone up.”
He also feels shoppers are ready to spend money despite an increase in the wholesale cost of flowers.
231
That compares with a previous forecast of a loss of €100m–€200m.
Ryanair said it now expected to fly just under 100 million passengers in the year to the end of March.
232
Singapore temporarily stopped selling tickets for its quarantine-free “travel lanes” system, which allows vaccinated people from 24 countries to enter, while Malaysia froze sales of bus and flight tickets to Singapore – its only travel corridor.
233
The ONS said the output loss during the initial phase in the pandemic was smaller than thought and GDP was just 1.5% below its pre-pandemic peak in 2019, rather than the 2.1% previously reported.
234
Indigenous, Hispanic and Asian youth have also suffered outsized losses, the numbers show.
“But for people who have lost someone, certain things will just never be normal.”
235
To catch up, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must authorize more reliable over-the-counter rapid antigen tests, said Aspinall.
236
The move was confirmed by the government, which said the action was being taken due to concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant.
The Philippines halved the waiting time for a Covid-19 vaccine booster to three months after a second vaccination, in attempt to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant.
237
It said Australia could see 200,000 new Covid cases a day by late January or early February.
It’s known as agent-based modelling, and it is used by the Doherty Institute.
238
It would not be sufficient to cope with a ramping up of restrictions beyond plan B.
The open question is what happens if heavier restrictions are introduced after Christmas.
239
The public should be “concerned” but not “panicked” about Omicron, he added.
This is on top of the 300 federal medical personnel that deployed in response to Omicron.
240
Many are looking for tests, help with mild or moderate symptoms, or monoclonal antibody treatment.
So far only few are requiring oxygen or a hospital stay, Legome said.
241
But this package is far too little and borders on the insulting,” he said.
But she urged the Treasury to ensure grants were paid out quickly, and said more help may be needed.
242
Quizzes are a video chat favourite, too.
Play video games remotelyMultiplayer and co-operative video games are big business and they can be exceptionally rewarding when you can’t physically be together.
243
“I think if enough of us rise up and say, ‘No, enough is enough,’ there are more of us than there are of them,” Palin said in response to a question about vaccine mandates, Mediate reported.
244
While Trump has expressed opposition to vaccine mandates, he has long taken credit for the vaccines developed on his watch, a stance he reiterated during the interview.
“Don’t take it away from ourselves.
245
In the week that ended 11 December, Omicron’s share of new infections in the US increased to 2.9% from 0.4% the week before, the CDC previously reported.
246
The Museum at South Kensington will be closed from 21-27 December, due to an unforeseen staff shortage.
She said the closures are likely to have hit museum’s finances.
247
“Thankfully, I am only experiencing mild symptoms and am grateful for the protection provided against serious illness that comes from being vaccinated and boosted,” the Massachusetts senator wrote, using the occasion to also urge anyone not vaccinated to do so.
248
Also shelved were Orlando’s game at Toronto on Monday and Washington’s game at Brooklyn on Tuesday.
The Nets had eight available players for Saturday night’s game against Orlando.
249
The highly transmissible Omicron variant spreads so fast that even if only one person in a house or a close-knit work team tests positive on a lateral flow device, there is a “significant chance that others are already infected”, the scientists warn.
250
” The White House reset comes at the end of a week in which the US surpassed 800,000 deaths from coronavirus and saw a 17% surge in cases and a 9% rise in deaths.
251
NYU Langone has seen a small uptick in patients with Covid, now about 80 in its several hospitals in New York City and Long Island.
252
Streeting said that if parliament was recalled in the coming days, Labour was ready to support more restrictions if these were recommended by scientists.
253
Harris’s claims are backed by data analysis showing that 91% of Democrats have received a first shot compared to only 60% of Republicans.
254
Classy.”
Hines did not comment.
Last month, Kennedy released a book in which he attacks targets including Joe Biden’s chief medical adviser.
255
On high streets, cheaper rents are starting to attract independent stores.
This is already the case for electricals, which has been one of the fastest markets to move online.
256
While restaurant owners across the city were making calls to their electricians, Yudai Kanayama had something else in mind.
Attitudes towards outdoor dining in New York City have changed.
257
Maersk, one of the big three shipping companies, said the worst delays were still on the US west coast where ships were waiting four weeks to unload due to the lack of workers on land.
258
Much remains unknown about Omicron, but authorities are concerned it may be more transmissible than the Delta variant, which has already put pressure on hospitals worldwide.
259
On Friday, the US Department of Labor, which includes Osha, said the 6th circuit’s ruling will allow the agency to implement “commonsense, science-based measures to keep workers safe and healthy during a deadly pandemic”.
260
“Labour made it clear when the investigation was launched that the person in charge should be uncompromised and able to make a fair and independent judgment,” she said.
261
Meanwhile, approximately 60% of Republican adults have received their first shot, according to data research by the New York Times.
262
In a sign of the impact of cancelled bookings throughout the food and drink supply chain, wholesaler Brakes Foodservice said it had received fewer orders over the past week than anticipated for this time of year.
263
“Antibodies are always a good starting point for trying to see if a vaccine works because what the antibodies do is block the pathogen getting into the cell in the first place.
264
DoorDash’s corporate employees were going back to the office in 2022 in a hybrid approach, but now the company is waiting to see what the new plan should be.
265
Starr was one of millions of workers out of work who lost unemployment benefits when federal extended and pandemic unemployment benefits ended in September.
266
After the talks, held in Glasgow last month, the Cop26 president, Alok Sharma, said India and China would “have to explain themselves to poor nations” after watering down the Glasgow climate pact, adding that their actions had left him “deeply frustrated”.
267
Public health officials should ramp up testing and surveillance across the country, she said.
It is still too early to tell if Omicron is more or less deadly than previous variants.
268
Just 11 out of 50 continued with their bookings after the warnings about socialising, said landlady Stosie Madi, while more than half of weekend bookings are also now cancelled.
269
Sunak was originally due to return on Saturday, according to the BBC.
Conservative MPs made clear they expected the Treasury to front up more money, accusing the government of imposing an “effective lockdown”.
270
“The group has gained significant market share during the pandemic.
“Looking ahead, we are encouraged by the strong performance in the UK, which clearly validates the Boohoo model,” he added.
271
Chit Selvarajah, the policy manager at older people’s charity Independent Age, said: “It is really concerning to hear reports that housebound people are struggling to get a booster jab.
272
The participation rate surged 1.4 percentage points in the month, to 66.1%, and is now higher than pre-Covid pandemic levels, the ABS said.
273
To generate enough data to allow the drugmakers to file their booster vaccine for regulatory approval, the trials need to continue into next year, with results expected by the end of March.
274
The “vaccine prince” title stuck when Poonawalla was appointed chief executive of SII in 2011, replacing his “vaccine king” father, who is now chair of the wider Poonawalla Group, which includes SII.
At $113m it was the most expensive Indian home ever sold when they bought in 2015.
He is renting it from the Polish billionaire Dominika Kulczyk, who bought it for £57m last year.
275
Employees were told they were required to have declared their vaccination status and uploaded proof of it, or to have applied for a medical or religious exemption, by 3 December, according to an internal memo obtained by CNBC, which first reported the story.
276
The figure represents the highest reported toll of any country in the world, and is likely even higher.
“And we’re now past three times that number.”
277
“Should they seek to enforce this action, we’ll see them in court.”
One senior state official sent and received 1,000 emails about the book, the legislative report said.
278
Previously, the clubs had introduced a temporary ban on related party transactions which was due to expire at 5pm on Tuesday.
279
With global attention closely focused on how South Africa’s Omicron outbreak is unfolding, some media reports have suggested the first evidence that Omicron cases in South Africa might be flattening.
280
At least three Labour frontbenchers including Rachel Reeves are among a string of MPs to have tested positive for Covid this week, amid concerns about parliamentarians crowding into the House of Commons for votes on “plan B” restrictions for England.
281
Norway has registered record numbers of infections and hospital admissions in recent days, among them 958 Omicron cases reported on Monday, including 472 in the capital, Oslo.
282
Political risk: 3/5 Ministers will be very wary about opening the door to the return of the “pingdemic”.
More work is needed on the chance of children being infected or developing severe disease with Omicron but there also mental health considerations when it comes to school closures.
Political risk: 5/5
Effectiveness: 5/5
283
The air force set the earliest deadline.
Several officials from the other services said they believe that so far only the air force has gotten this far along in the process and discharged people over the vaccine refusal.
284
Shai Weiss, chief executive of Virgin Atlantic, said that both shareholders and creditors had “been a source of unwavering support” during the pandemic, with an earlier £1.2bn recapitalisation in September 2020 bringing the airline back from the brink.
285
Passenger numbers on London Underground and rail stations around the country have dropped about 20% in the morning peak time after some – but far from all – took government advice to work from home.
286
So, if you’re swabbing as soon as you start to feel unwell, that might be too soon to return a positive LFT.
Who wants someone else’s cold, anyway?
287
Omicron is spurring new fears as US infections begin to surge again, with infections still led by the highly transmissable Delta variant that has dominated since the summer.
288
In an update to the stock market, JD Wetherspoon told investors that “uncertainty, and the introduction of radical changes of direction by the government, make predictions for sales and profits hazardous”.
289
Arce said that many of these struggles within Native communities aren’t new phenomena but areproblems that have been plaguing residents for decades.
290
That has a consequential impact on hospitals because patients’ length of stay and recovery period are greater.
And they’re quite frightened about being redeployed into Covid wards again.
291
She glanced away from her boyfriend, Lannis Ward, and when she looked back, he was gone.
Kirks was at a ministry center where people gathered to seek information about the missing.
292
Just 67.7% of the population are fully vaccinated, a relatively low rate for western Europe, and the government has introduced measures to put increasing pressure on unvaccinated individuals to get the jab.
293
But it’s also because whereas in previous eras the people with enough money were too busy in the office to justify the purchase, these days they can work from anywhere.
294
It brings the total number of confirmed cases to 1,898.
“We also need to recognise the wide range of other pressures the NHS is under.
295
“I’m not a neo-Nazi or a hooligan,” said another, “I’m fighting for freedom and against the vaccine.
Manuela, 47, said she had travelled to the capital for the protest.
296
The Oxfordshire company has developed a T-cell vaccine that will eventually take the form of an easy-to-administer skin patch.
297
The first confirmed case of Omicron in California was found last week and authorities across the country are concerned that the new variant could spread widely in the US as it has in countries such as South Africa and the United Kingdom.
298
The hope, he added, was that the new measures would slow the spread of Omicron, potentially dropping its doubling time to four or five days.
299
Thanks to largely closed borders and strict quarantines, Taiwan has stayed comparatively Covid-free, including defeating a large local outbreak this year that began with pilots.
300
“[The] high level of cancellations by business travellers concerned about being trapped overseas because of pre-departure testing shows the potential harm to the economy of travel restrictions,” the airport said in an update.
301
But the vote showed the significant political problems Biden has faced in carrying out his public health policies to combat the pandemic.
302
Sociologist Choi‬ Jong-ryul says untact provided some advantages - including allowing anonymity through electronic devices, freeing people from the pressures of formality and reducing emotional labour associated with the service industry.
303
The rise of the Omicron variant had already prompted some companies to take action before the government advice changed.
304
The finding that nearly all of the cases so far are mild may be a reflection that this first look at US Omicron cases captured mainly vaccinated people, who are expected to have milder illnesses, CDC officials said.
305
Rolls-Royce is no longer burning cash after making deep cost cuts in response to the coronavirus pandemic, the jet engine maker has said as it appeared to shrug off the fresh uncertainty facing the aviation industry as a result of the Omicron variant.
306
While some companies had postponed their celebrations until the new year when there may be more certainty, others had cancelled their parties outright.
307
Ohio is one of the states that has seen the largest recent increases in hospitalizations due to Covid as the number of cases climbs across the country.
308
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has predicted that the Omicron variant could become the dominant variant in Europe within months.
309
The problem is him.
Many Tories, including cabinet ministers, have indicated that they do not intend to help campaigning efforts in North Shropshire.
310
A Covid pass that shows evidence of at least two vaccine doses will also be accepted at live sports events, but reports that the vaccine passport would be the only means of gaining access have proved to be unfounded.
The Premier League has made clear since the summer that is well prepared for the measures, with the hope that effective implementation would limit the possibility of crowds being excluded from stadiums again should the pandemic continue to get worse.
311
Trafigura’s trading desks “capably managed extreme market volatility across a broad spectrum of commodities”, he said, and they performed “exceptionally well regardless of market conditions”.
312
The news about an alleged Christmas party is truly scandalous.
Emma Hawley, 41, programme manager, Stockport ‘The video is the icing on the cake’
313
“And we’ve all been fined £100 each.”
But the emergence of the video that so angered Kearns has prompted an investigation and a prime ministerial apology.
314
After the reimposition of the requirement to take the tests on return from abroad, Lord Tyrie accused the government of once again allowing the companies offering PCR tests to manipulate the system by making them available at unrealistic prices.
315
“It is still too early to make a real forecast for the 2022 summer season,” he said.
“But we are optimistic that tourism will be able to recover to 2019 levels next summer.
316
“Staffing is a real issue in hospitality at the moment …
Until Sunday, Young had managed to stay open, but limited staffing numbers, coupled with a Covid scare at Yah Yahs on Friday, had led to the decision to shut.
“While weren’t contacted by the government we knew there’d been a Covid exposed person at Yah Yahs on Friday and decided all staff would be tested.
317
For months the housing market boomed on the back of sales of larger properties, with commentators reporting that lifestyle changes prompted by the pandemic were fuelling demand for homes with gardens, studies and spare rooms as more people worked from home.
318
The political views of each person remain unknown.
The most widely believed false statement is that the government is exaggerating the number of Covid deaths.
319
De Blasio said he expected his new mandate to survive any legal challenges.
In addition, proof of at least one shot will be required of children aged five to 11, de Blasio said.
320
The Fulham Shore reported a £3m pre-tax profit in the half year to the end of September, compared with a £4.3m loss in the same period last year, and a £7.5m loss in its financial year to the end of March.
321
Malthouse also took a different view to Raab’s claim that the police “don’t normally look back and investigate things that have taken place a year ago”, saying it would be right for police to follow up any formal complaints about the event.
322
“Many children and adolescents don’t yet have the coping mechanisms that they might need, and they are in some respects at the mercy of adults who are there to take care of them,” said Hoover.
323
The CBI also said the recovery in exports is likely to be lacklustre following what it described as disappointing growth over this year so far.
324
“The vaccines that we are distributing now in the United States and throughout the world are directed against the original ancestral Wuhan strain,” he said.
325
” His stated hope that the nation could now come together around his new plan will have struck some as optimistic to the point of naivety.
326
State health officials said the state’s first case likely stemmed from one of the six who recently traveled to Nigeria and returned on 23 November.
327
Founded by a Danish karate champion, the smoothie chain Joe & the Juice has blitzed its way on to British high streets, where its pastel-pink outlets and drinks with names such as Sex Me Up have cut a distinctive dash.
328
He won’t even wear a mask.
But I have given up completely now.
I tell him I don’t want to know his theories, and ignore him when he talks to me about it.
329
Vaccination rates in both Germany and Austria are lagging behind the rest of western Europe, with under 70% of the populations having had two jabs.
But I have hope that some people will change their minds.”
There are horrible consequences a result of this refusal to get the vaccine – cancer operations are cancelled, for instance.
330
Wolfson noted that with DeSantis’s measures now enshrined in law, rather than executive orders that can more easily be challenged, there appears little appetite to defy him.
331
You can see the potential benefit; you get to learn a bit more about how Omicron might effect the economy,” he said.
332
But experts say this expectation has no scientific basis.
“The broad scientific consensus is that this is not what will happen with Omicron,” said Yates.
333
It remains to be seen whether the Omicron variant will, like Delta, have a damping effect on the jobs market.
334
reimbursement plan “is a move in the right direction”, said Dr Celine Gounder, an infectious disease specialist and epidemiologist at New York University.
335
Hochul said the case involving the Minnesota visitor underlined the need for everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated or receive a booster shot if they have not already.
336
On Thursday, the president will unveil actions to get more children aged five and older vaccinated.
Biden also set out a plan to ensure that Americans have access to free at-home testing.
337
Although only 16 cases of Omicron have been positively identified in the province, Cloete said that based on a proxy marker in PCR tests, the Omicron variant could be prevalent in as much as 80% of the new cases in the last week.
338
“Unfortunately, that decision is being taken out of my hands by employers and policymakers who have been scared into warnings and premature cancellation of parties over very little.”
339
I think we are not being given enough guidance by the government as to the simple things we can do,” he said.
“We don’t know at the moment how far this will spread.
340
However, one in five – an estimated 8.6 million adults – have been drinking more.
And then the pathogenic bacteria can get in and cause inflammation.”
341
Witnesses have come forward to detail party games and festivities beyond midnight in Downing Street during the winter 2020 lockdown, expanding on reports first made in the Daily Mirror.
342
There are no plans to alter health orders or impose new restrictions in light of the discovery, said Dr Grant Colfax, the director of the San Francisco department of public health.
343
Amid the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, the Biden administration intends to toughen testing requirements for international travelers coming to the US, including both vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
344
It added that the failure to ensure rapid and effective vaccination around the world was proving costly, with uncertainty remaining high and as new Covid variants are identified.
345
The EU must consider mandatory vaccination in response to the spread of the “highly contagious” Omicron Covid variant across Europe, the European Commission president has said.
346
In July 2020, the network spent an hour of air time complaining about “censorship” around the pandemic and also gave an hour’s slot to Robert F Kennedy Jr, who has spread misinformation about the Covid vaccine.
347
Separately, leaked minutes from a meeting of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), to which Nervtag reports, suggested experts had called on the government to introduce predeparture testing for travellers returning to the UK.
348
Johns Hopkins University publishes cases and deaths data for most countries in the world (a notable exception being North Korea, which claims to have had none).
349
Some Democrat states, on the other hand, have said that leaving a job because of mandates will disqualify former employees from these benefits unless they have demonstrated exemptions.
350
Dr David Wrigley, deputy council chair at the British Medical Association, said: “As doctors working on the frontline we can categorically say that the NHS and the wider health service are already overwhelmed.
351
And frankly, I’m not telling them to back up.
The host, Chris Wallace of Fox News, later said Trump was not tested before the debate because he arrived late.
352
The Asahi survey found relief that the risk of a possible new wave of infections this winter had forced many companies to cancel bonenkai or hold them online.
353
” Israel’s health minister expressed cautious optimism.
The remarks come amid conflicting information about how effective various vaccines and therapies are likely to be against the new variant.
354
On Monday, Biden said Americans should be concerned but should not panic.
“There is no comparing the hell these victims went through to public health measures.
355
The monk urged followers to disobey the government’s lockdown measures.
After leaving the ranks of law enforcement, he was convicted of murder, robbery and assault, and sentenced to 13 years in prison.
356
In March, another Texas man pleaded guilty to orchestrating a fraudulent scheme to obtain approximately $24.9m in PPP loans by submitting 15 fraudulent applications.
357
Constitutional lawyers have advised making vaccination mandatory for anyone over 14, which is the age of criminal responsibility in Austria.
358
The airline reported strong demand during key periods such as the October half-term school break, as well as for ski and Christmas holidays.
359
“There’s no doubt there will be a chilling effect on confidence, while travel restrictions may mean some bookings are being cancelled.”
360
From questions over mandates to concerns over global distribution, “vaccine” has been the clear word of the year, according to dictionary publisher Merriam-Webster.
361
Early on Thursday, work crews took the rare step of erecting metal fences outside the senate and parliament.
“They are a threat to public safety.”
362
APNA has been working with universities and tertiary institutions to provide nursing placements for undergraduate and postgraduate students in aged care homes and other facilities to reduce reliance on hospitals.
363
The Australian National Audit Office made those findings in a report, released on Thursday, identifying “shortcomings” in the Building Our Future campaign, including material that was not always presented in an “objective and fair manner”.
364
But they also know that these measures are necessary.
While the state was still recording thousands of cases every day, Gavrielatos said risk mitigation was key.
365
The ending of the legal agreement which allows universities to hand out lateral flow testing kits to students and staff ahead of the confirmation that all remaining Covid restrictions in England is hard to understand.
366
The Guardian understands that details of the vaccine rollout are still being finalised but, in England at least, a schools-based programme is not likely to be the primary route.
367
Several other Victorian changes were also announced on Thursday, including that international arrivals will no longer need to obtain a permit to enter the state, and the hotel quarantine period for unvaccinated travellers will be reduced from 14 days to seven days.
368
Guardian Australia has previously reported that Covid outbreaks have repeatedly and disproportionately hit more disadvantaged groups.
369
The announcement followed a recommendation by the Joint Committee for Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) that the vaccine programme should be extended to younger children, after months of deliberation over the benefits and risks.
370
Our 11-year-old has now had the vaccine and we’d like to give our nine-year-old the best chance of not getting long Covid.
There are lots of motivations.
371
Experts note that the pace of this rollout is slower than that of the adult vaccination programme, with an average of about 3,000 children a day being jabbed over the past week.
372
Scottish government officials have started conversations with health boards about how to deliver the vaccinations, following advice circulated by the JCVI to all the UK’s governments earlier this month.
373
Where outbreaks happen in schools and care homes, the ADPH recommended that infection prevention “will continue to be appropriate for these settings, though the thresholds for intervention are likely to be higher”.
374
” Zito told the Guardian testing for Covid in pets should be undertaken “on the advice of human and animal health authorities” and that confirmatory testing should be performed in the event of a positive result.
375
That day, he announced up to 1,700 ADF personnel would be made available to the aged care sector.
That’s why we’ve got over $18bn on the table to reform the sector.
376
Fresh guidance issued by the Cabinet Office on Tuesday to those who may be contacted by Scotland Yard about the dozen gatherings under investigation said they could still “seek legal advice” before responding.
377
It’s perplexing to know why that has not been published yet but I have seen a copy of that advice and we will be commencing with the vaccinations of five- to 11-year-olds.”
378
The deadly impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the most deprived areas in England and Wales has been even more pronounced than first thought, according to research that reveals the north-west lost three times more years of life than the south-west.
379
A Hong Kong hospital today as the number of Covid patients continues to soar... via Sing Tao https://t.co/1r73YugGPJ pic.twitter.com/x4Z7hwnssn
380
The revised act requires parliamentary oversight and all measures must comply with the country’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
381
Another Whitehall health source said Covid antivirals were one of the main tools for “learning to live with Covid” by helping take pressure off the NHS.
382
A government spokesperson said: “We have received advice from the JCVI as part of the wider work on the living with Covid strategy so we will set out more details in due course.
383
The protest against Covid restrictions and high energy prices shifted its focus to the symbolic heart of the EU after police prevented most of the estimated 3,000 vehicles from entering Paris at the weekend.
384
However, rates remained significantly lower than earlier in the pandemic.
Home working rates peaked at 49% in early June 2020.
385
At that point we weren’t sure when he was going to be able to come back because the borders are still closed and obviously it costs a lot of money.”
386
Adam French, a consumer rights expert at Which?, said: “These record high fuel prices will be worrying for many households across the country.
387
National and state leaders are set to discuss the opening-up plan on Wednesday, as Germany’s disease control agency reported 76,465 new cases in the last 24 hours, the second consecutive day of declining incidence rates.
388
One proposed convoy aims to leave from Fresno in California on 2 March, taking the I-10 interstate straight to the capital, where it would arrive on 6 March.
389
On Monday morning, Clarence House alerted the organisations Camilla visited and the media who covered her engagements.
390
The Chinese territory reported 1,347 new infections on Sunday, down from Saturday’s record, but the spread with 2,000 more suspected cases threatens its overstretched healthcare system, authorities said.
391
Saunders said the department “explored hotels and apartments knowing they would be lower cost options, but they weren’t agreed by the ACT government due to the higher Covid risk”.
392
Monday’s announcement follows regulations last week that will exempt key workers from isolating if exposed, as long as they return negative tests.
393
France introduced “health passes” during the coronavirus pandemic, which also allowed people to prove their status with a negative lateral flow test, as well as being vaccinated.
394
The road is now effectively clear of protesters.
Police earlier issued a statement calling the protest an unlawful occupation and saying they were waiting for reinforcements before implementing a plan to end the demonstrations.
395
“The demands that the nurses are making are very reasonable,” he said.
“We want to reach resolution and the sooner we reach resolution, the better,” he said.
396
Jonathan Boys, the CIPD’s labour market economist, said: “Even though businesses anticipate making record pay awards to their employees this year, most people are set to see their real wages fall against the backdrop of high inflation.”
397
Simpson says the delay in screening “really, really delayed diagnosis for me, by a good six months”.
“But people are fatigued.
398
The ANU study concluded that it was “always going to be necessary to open the country and ease restrictions that have been some of the most draconian in the developed world” and that it was inevitable this would “lead to a large increase in Covid-19 cases”.
399
He told media he had also ordered the sound system into operation.
New Zealand was spared the worst of the pandemic after it closed its borders and implemented strict lockdowns, limiting the spread of the virus.
400
The groups argue the government should follow the UK and US in providing free kits for the entire community.
401
The mental health of the community is serviced by people being able to get together.
Moorcroft said: “This is an industry under serious threat.
402
School leaders have told the committee that the programme is “a bureaucratic nightmare”.
He said: “It all needs to be made simple and easy for schools to access.
403
“We haven’t actually made a decision on when [further restrictions] will come in, but at some point in time they will come in,” McGowan said on Sunday.
404
Ottawa mayor Jim Watson declared a state of emergency last week for the capital, where hundreds of trucks remained in front of the parliament buildings and demonstrators have set up portable toilets outside the prime minister’s office, where Trudeau’s motorcade usually parks.
405
The measures will give Hong Kong a breathing space as medical capacity becomes stretched on all fronts, although there were no specific details of the plans and it was not clear how quickly they could be implemented.
406
Cars carrying protesters managed to get through police checkpoints in central Paris on Saturday to snarl traffic around the Arc de Triomphe.
About 7,000 officers have been mobilised for the weekend protests.
407
The idea that virus variants will continue to get milder is wrong.
“It would be prudent to encourage people to protect themselves and others consistently.
408
“So essentially, they’re modern day pirates at the moment because the prices are not really controlled or regulated by any government.”
409
“But even though she is triple-vaccinated, what will it mean for her if she goes into aged care and Covid gets into the home?
410
Windsor police immediately warned that anyone blocking the streets could be subject to arrest and their vehicles could be seized.
411
The story behind the official data is of employers struggling to attract or retain staff, and of workers seeking to make the most of it.
412
Children under 12 are exempt from testing and vaccination requirements.
The move follows Spain easing its travel rules for British passengers aged 12 to 17.
413
While a number of vaccines are available worldwide to help prevent infection and serious illness, including one made by Pfizer, there are limited treatment options for people infected with Covid-19.
414
Parents who are home schooling because of Covid say schools are not giving them any work in case they are seen to support unauthorised absences.
415
The pair each pleaded guilty on Friday to two charges of failing to comply with a direction under WA’s Emergency Management Act.
Vandongen said the psychological report had referenced various stresses in Power’s life as well as the impact of previous time had spent in quarantine.
416
The testing regime is also likely to be moved to a home delivery service only, with walk-in centres closed across the country.
417
True love may cost a little more this Valentine’s Day with the global supply chain crisis hitting the flower industry and forcing up the cost of a single – albeit pimped up – rose to as much as $70.
418
“I still experience crippling fatigue.
“GPs are under enormous pressure right now.
Willis is calling for better follow-up of Covid patients in Australia.
419
“I think everyone in the media would agree that we’ve seen an increase in online abuse.”
“I have noticed it targeted at other Māori woman, certainly.”
420
The DHSC did not explain why the PPE was unused but it was not all defective.
The department’s list includes 552,100 unused items, costing £8.5m, supplied by Meller Designs.
421
Numbers released on Friday by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed that the combined impact of the pandemic and Britain’s exit from the single market caused a 12% fall in exports between January and December last year compared with 2018.
422
“Allowing the virus a free run would be a fundamental error,” he said.
“Vaccination, including boosters, is still key.”
It’s too soon to lift restrictions now.”
423
“This, along with the UK also relaxing its travel requirements, means it is getting easier for people to set off on their long-awaited holidays abroad.
424
Tenerife, Madeira and Lanzarote were the most searched for destinations, BA said, with holidaymakers flocking to the Canaries.
Heathrow airport said it had seen an “Omicron hangover” affecting demand.
425
Marta, GP, London University professor: ‘I will just have to accept students in the classroom who know they have Covid’
We’re down to the bare bones.
426
Some supporters of the “freedom convoys” said the protesters should not be deterred by the police order to remain outside Paris city limits.
427
“This toxic combination is hitting economic demand and weakening our recovery from the pandemic.”
However, he said there were reasons to worry about the damage caused by a fall in trade.
428
He added that the removal of government restrictions that mean vaccinated travellers arriving in the UK no longer have to take coronavirus tests, which started from 4am on Friday, offered a “ray of hope” for the recovery of the travel industry.
429
Dressed in a black cowboy hat, Bautz described vaccine mandates as “medical segregation” and argued that exclusions for the unvaccinated were an infringement of their freedoms.
430
“Inevitably it needed to happen for Australia to get back to work but it should have been delayed until the middle of January.”
431
The Welsh government is relaxing some Covid restrictions but keeping the requirement for people to isolate if they test positive for Covid.
From Friday 18 February, the Covid pass will no longer be required for entry into indoor outdoor events and venues, including nightclubs, cinemas, theatres and concert halls.
432
“We have still not received clarity from the [health department] regarding the ongoing supply of RATs post being in an outbreak position,” St Basil’s chief executive, Michelle Church, said.
433
“The effects on pig farmers have been devastating, and it is clear that many contractual arrangements are simply unfair,” Prentis said.
Producers have said the British pig industry is fighting for survival.
434
Yousaf said the policy appeared to have been cooked up at Downing Street with little scientific or expert support.
It had no plans to follow suit, he added.
435
“There will be a special deployment of officers to prevent blockages of major roads, issue tickets and arrest those who contravene this protest ban,” Paris police said, adding that instructions had been given to “act firmly”.
436
“HRH is deeply disappointed not to be able to attend today’s events in Winchester and will look to reschedule his visit as soon as possible.”
437
The meeting came just hours after Morrison dropped his signature religious discrimination bill from the Senate agenda, as the Coalition claimed legal advice had questioned the “unintended consequences” of non-government amendments from the House of Representatives.
438
The complaint from the business groups came as shipping industry analysts forecast that the biggest global shipping firms would make extraordinary profits in 2021.Danish
439
Noting there had been a drop in HIV testing during Covid, he added that with people regularly testing for coronavirus, it should be “ingrained in us that that’s what we need to do, to know our status in order to be able to keep other people safe”.
440
That has not come to fruition,” he said.
Parliamentary services boosted security after a spate of threats or harassment of MPs.
441
“It has not been a quick nor an easy decision.”
Tasmanian opposition leader, Rebecca White, told reporters Courtney’s resignation created a “mess.”
442
Hong Kong has reported close to 4,000 infections over the past two weeks, up from just two in December, taking its tally to more than 17,000 since the outbreak began in 2020, with 215 deaths, although the figures are lower than other major cities in the world.
443
Phased reopening of schools begins in England.
3 August 2020 “Eat out to help out” scheme, offering a 50% discount on meals up to £10 per person, begins.
444
Police say a considerable amount of financial support is coming from the US, which has enabled protesters to stay in place.
445
As the threat of the Omicron wave has receded in England, the government has been quick to move the conversation on to “living with Covid”.
446
Still, England joins other European countries that are easing Covid-19 restrictions as infection rates drop and Omicron is shown to be less severe compared to previous variants.
447
Anonymous ‘We need to encourage people to regain their lives’ [The decision is] fully justified by falling case numbers and death rates.
448
To help prevent the spread of Covid the government made changes to allow telehealth appointments to be bulk-billed, encouraging patients to avoid physically attending a GP practice.
449
“These medicines were trialled before the vaccine was widely distributed,” Griffin said.
Healthcare was set up to “treat you no matter whether you’re at ‘fault’ or not,” he said.
450
It is a hugely expensive operation, and the expectation is that this will not be the case in the long term.
Yes, it is, as health policy is devolved across UK nations.
451
“I fully recognise the importance of following the letter and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront about what happened and to apologise for the mistake I made.”
452
While Asio’s overall terrorism caseload has decreased since this time last year, there’s been a distinct increase in radicalisation and specific-issue grievances,” he said.
453
“The government has had weeks to improve its Covid Return to School plan, but instead we’ll see students return to classes … with unacceptable, bare-minimum safety measures in place.”
454
A protester stands on Parliament’s steps with a wall of masked police officers behind her and urges unity through a microphone.
In front of the woman, the grounds look like a small music festival.
455
Despite rising public anger, Lam is sticking to dynamic zero, a containment strategy with the constant goal of reaching zero cases.
456
“It would go some way to showing our nurses and our frontline workers how much we appreciate them, how much we know they put on the line.”
457
Operators normally have to give a minimum six weeks’ notice of route closures, meaning that many are already having to decide which will not be viable in the spring, when the Bus Recovery Grant payments end.
458
Horst said that “even when international flights to Australia increase, air freight capacity is still in high demand, so until supply chain issues normalise, things won’t be operating as usual”.
459
She told Guardian Australia she was “elated” about the reopening.
When Australia began to ban international arrivals, she decided to make a quick trip home to Indonesia.
460
Greece has also dropped pre-departure test requirements for fully vaccinated arrivals.
461
Tui reported revenues of €3.4bn (£2.8bn) for the three months to 30 September, compared with €1.2bn a year earlier, as more people were vaccinated against Covid-19 across Europe and leisure travel bounced back.
462
“During our recent outbreak I requested isolation gowns and N95 masks from the national stockpile,” Jane said.
Speak up for the elderly.”
463
The border’s reopening was praised by Andrews, who on Tuesday said it was “good for the economy, good for jobs”.
“We can’t conduct 2022 like it’s 2020 or 2021.
464
Chris Hipkins said over the weekend that rising case numbers were expected given the emergence of the Omicron variant.
465
” Rooney said the government’s weekly report just gave the total number of doses delivered, making it impossible to ascertain booster rates from this.
466
“There is a sense from some pupils, as one leader explained, that ‘you weren’t fussed when we weren’t in school all that time in lockdown and we did our work at home, so why does it matter so much now?’” it went on.
467
On Sunday, Bruce Heyman, a US ambassador under President Barack Obama, said this interference had to end.
Police also moved in to clear a key intersection in the city.
468
The sharp rise was attributed to last week’s lunar new year festivities, although the overall outbreak began late last year.
469
Coalition MPs Gerard Rennick and George Christensen said they planned to join the anti-mandate protesters this week, while One Nation’s Malcolm Roberts gave a speech on parliament’s front lawn on Monday.
470
“There’s not enough staff to provide even basic levels of care now.
We need the staff still there now to focus on personal care, but there’s many things military can do to help,” she said.
471
The decision to open the border has also been welcomed by Australian residents who have been unable to reunite with immediate family.
The tourism industry was quick to welcome the news.
472
Meanwhile, we are watching more of our friends leave because the territory has changed.
“Everyone is walking a fine line here, and I’m afraid things aren’t going to get better
473
Pointing to Australia’s falling unemployment rate, Frydenberg will highlight the increased mobility in the labour market, with government payroll data showing workers who had moved jobs “typically experienced pay increases of between 8 and 10%”.
474
“Travellers, especially with children under 18, will have to be careful and well aware of individual countries’ regulations to ensure they can travel without problems.”
475
No government does,” she said.
There were 7,169 new infections in Victoria and six deaths, while Queensland recorded 5,746 and nine deaths.
476
“My stress levels are through the roof.
NSW head, Leo Patterson Ross, said he had noticed a jump in the number of renters in the area asking for advice.
477
Overall 134 aged care residents had died in Queensland.
He said anyone who had not received their third vaccination should get immediately.
In the ACT, there was one Covid-related death and 372 new cases.
In South Australia, two women in their 80s who had tested positive for Covid-19 had died, authorities said.
478
And Labor demanded that the federal government “clarify” what it would do to fix chronic staff shortages, which have left some elderly residents without food, cleaning or support.
479
That means Hayter’s daughter is not allowed to travel to Australia without an exemption.
He has attempted to apply for visas for them and been told they are not eligible.
480
Meanwhile double shifts are being regularly requested.
There are no signs of a surge workforce.
Mandy says while staff struggled, isolated residents suffered the most.
481
Morrison needed tranquility, and the state division of the Liberal party obliged him by roiling.
It shook the government.
Right now, Morrison’s belief has been downgraded to hope.
482
Trump said in a statement that the truckers were “peacefully protesting the harsh policies of far left lunatic Justin Trudeau who has destroyed Canada with insane Covid mandates”.
483
“Covid is still having a significant impact on education.”
“Healthy children are being tested and isolated unnecessarily,” she said.
484
Still, the sheer number of current infections means large numbers of troops will be taken out of action for days at a time as Putin continues to keep the world guessing about his intentions.
485
Johnson said his personal Facebook along with those of two of the other organizers were also removed for violating QAnon policies, despite his own disavowal of the conspiracy movement.
486
“I don’t have any regrets about the concept of having MIQ [managed isolation and quarantine],” Hipkins says.
I think kiwis are ready for it.”
487
Protesters at the rallies counter this, claiming “we’re not anti-vax, we’re pro-choice”.
Details are unclear, but Ross predicts “big numbers” of new supporters will arrive.
488
Aged care providers estimate about a quarter of all shifts – or the equivalent of 140,000 shifts a week – are going unfilled, while the disability sector has reported roster vacancies of up to 30% during the peak of Omicron.
489
It is not clear how the NSW government would have enforced any mandate, with the Guardian able to reveal that the state has not kept track of how many health workers in the state have received booster shots so far.
490
Across Australia, poultry and meat products are already in short supply as Covid affects the workforce at meat processing plants and suppliers.
491
Fitted for Work is one of six organisations to receive a share of $1.1m in new funding from the Victorian government to help women overcome barriers to economic security.
492
To then be stuck in ambulance unable to get immediate medical help once you get there must add to the trauma of an emergency visit,” said Rachel Power, the chief executive of the Patients Association.
Ministers needed to put more money into social care to make it easier for hospitals to discharge patients who were medically fit to leave, and thus relieve the pressure on A&Es, Power added.
493
Sajid Javid, the health secretary, said: “It is great to see our world-renowned medicines regulator approve another Covid-19 vaccine.
494
HMRC records show that Skinnydip’s furlough claims continued until at least last August.
The company went on to claim up to £20,000 in furlough grants in March and April 2021.
495
They will still have to self-isolate at home for 10 days, but will no longer have to pass through the country’s expensive and highly space-limited managed isolation facilities, known as MIQ.
496
Officials expect more protesters to arrive in the city over the weekend, and described the situation “volatile”.
497
Outlets including Der Spiegel and the BBC, have reported discrepancies in the serial numbers of the tests Serbian authorities administered to Djokovic ahead of his trip to Australia, suggesting possible irregularities in the way they were issued.
498
Leigh said the $400 bonus payments to aged care workers “did not scratch the surface” of what was needed in that sector, but disability care workers would receive nothing at all.
499
“We can expect a lot of transmission in schools but it’s going to be even higher if we start loosening restrictions.
In NSW, the state government will review the strategy after two weeks.
500
In a third, the school’s bay was changed from a capacity of six to 19.
“In many cases, this resulted in updated information on reports which were reissued to schools.”
501
But the waiting times for AAT decisions have ballooned during the pandemic, leaving him stuck on the bridging visa for the foreseeable future, unable to travel.
502
He is one of tens of thousands of care home residents in England who remain locked down because of the spread of Omicron.
503
Richard Colbeck has defended his decision to attend the Ashes cricket in Hobart instead of a parliamentary Covid inquiry, insisting the aged sector was not in crisis and he continued to work on the Omicron outbreak.
504
“An urgent plan is needed to restore reasonable and acceptable access to elective surgery, as well as a long-term funding arrangement to ensure this backlog is cleared,” the statement said.
505
The announcement came as case numbers continued to drop nationwide.
School goes back next week, we are expecting to see increased numbers of cases.”
506
” Paterson pointed to a lack of resources for local medical clinics, saying staff there were stretched under pre-pandemic demands, and had been completely overwhelmed by the pandemic.
507
According to the ONS data, by mid-January 75% of children of Chinese heritage had received a vaccination, followed by nearly 66% of children of Indian heritage and 59% from white British backgrounds.
508
A similar protest has paralyzed an Alberta border town for days, after dozens of trucks blocked access to the highway in protest of public health policies.
509
“As discussed, future cases that arise will need to be managed onsite.
“Given our cohort, it’s difficult to ascertain whether they are symptomatic,” the staff member said.
510
Atagi also decreased the maximum timeframe allowable for deferral of vaccination after Covid infection from six months to four months but suggests those with very severe Covid cases should check with their doctor.
511
This move is believed to have bolstered the number of staff currently undertaking passport-related work to more than 600, which is similar to pre-pandemic staffing levels.
512
Gareth Davies, the NAO’s comptroller and auditor general, also noted that PPE procurement had been vulnerable to fraud, as normal competitive tender processes were suspended and multimillion-pound contracts awarded to many companies with no previous experience.
513
1. Is it too late now to say sorry?
He shifted the apology from its intended subject – his mistakes – and on to something arguably outside his control.
514
I’m on the last thread here,” he said.
“We cannot allow people like Dr Chin to experience threats, abuse and intimidation simply for doing his job.”
515
In a column published in the New Zealand Herald on Saturday, Bellis wrote that she was unable to stay in Belgium because she was not a resident.
516
But Butler said residents with the virus would be put into isolation, potentially unable to be with their family in their final days.
517
“We have always known that the daily number of reported cases was a substantial undercount of the actual number of infections – the ONS Covid Infection Survey shows that we have to at least double the daily count,” he said.
518
Figures published last week by NHS England show that 127,515 NHS and domiciliary care staff working in registered settings had not had a first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine as of 23 January.
519
Justin Trudeau has said that Canadians were disgusted by the behaviour of anti-vaccine protesters, and said he would not be intimidated by those who hurled abuse.
520
“We make decisions that will certainly affect the health of people in low-income countries, but it will also affect our health in high-income countries in the next three to five years as well.”
521
On Sunday, Albanese said the tests would be “available on the basis of need”.
The ANMF survey found that 67% had received a booster or third dose of Covid vaccine, with another 32% now having two doses.
522
It advises that when buying home tests, “only tests that are approved by the TGA should be bought”.
“The TGA cannot vouch for the effectiveness of unapproved products,” a spokesperson said.
523
The health minister, Greg Hunt, played down the number of homes yet to be offered booster shots.
Guardian Australia has requested this data from the health department.
524
This event is under police investigation.
The Sue Gray report mentions a third event, "a gathering in No 10 on the departure of a No 10 official.
525
Wang Zhe, a senior economist at Caixin Insight Group, said: “Over the past month, there were Covid-19 flare-ups in several regions in China, underscoring the downward pressure on the economy.
526
The DHSC said last Thursday that from 31 January there would be “no limit on the number of visitors”, adding that “self-isolation periods will be cut and now care homes only have to follow outbreak management rules for 14 rather than 28 days”.
527
The latest figures from the Department of Health show there were 23,900 active Covid cases within the aged care system across 1,261 residential aged care facilities.
528
The apparent imminent U-turn came as the Royal College of Nursing argued that both the change in severity from Omicron and the number of NHS vacancies meant the mandatory vaccination policy should be dropped.
529
Asked if he backed his treasurer’s public row with his federal counterpart, Perrottet said supported Kean fighting every day “for NSW to get further funding
530
On 10 January, acting chief health officer Ben Cowie’s advice was that a mandate for third doses was not yet required.
531
She is due to give birth in May.
New Zealand’s Covid-19 response minister, Chris Hipkins, said on Monday there were places in MIQ for people with special circumstances.
532
City economists widely expect the central bank to increase its key rate from 0.25% to 0.5% in response to inflation hitting levels not seen for almost 30 years, with financial markets suggesting a 90% chance of an increase in borrowing costs.
533
When asked about the document on Monday, Perrottet said the government had “always known” hospitalisations, case numbers and deaths would rise as a result of the decision to reopen the economy.
534
Paracetamol – a basic medication to ease Covid-19 symptoms – was not provided to an infected prisoner who was just “locked away” in a cell in a Sydney jail, a judge has been told.
535
“Residents of Elcho Island can return but will need to stay once they are back.
On Sunday the NT reported 849 new virus cases and revised up Saturday’s total to 879.
536
In comments to the Sunday Times, expanding on the CQC’s approach, Baker said: “We fully recognise there are concerns that the introduction of mandatory vaccination rules risks exacerbating existing staff shortages.”
537
Young people who lost their jobs during the pandemic in the UK have returned to less secure work, often in gig economy roles, according to research from a leading thinktank, which also found almost 50,000 more men under the age of 24 are now economically inactive.
While thinktank said the furlough scheme had been a success in limiting youth unemployment, joblessness during the pandemic nonetheless had blighted future employment and pay prospects, as well as the mental health, of many.
538
It also flagged preliminary evidence suggesting “an increased risk of reinfection” from the variant, and pointed to increased hospitalisation rates in the Gauteng province of South Africa.
539
Australia has committed to distributing 60m doses of Covid-19 vaccine across the Indo-Pacific by the end of 2022.
Indonesia has received 5.7m doses, Vietnam 5.6m and
540
Last month, 270 doctors, scientists and healthcare professionals signed an open letter expressing concern over the podcast “promoting baseless conspiracy theories” and pressing Spotify to act.
541
Hong Kong’s policy to achieve “dynamic zero infection” was the most effective way to fight the outbreak and protect public health, the government said in a statement.
542
Cases in the UK first peaked in early April 2020, before falling in late spring and summer.
That figure began rising again in September and reached a new record in January 2021.
543
The rally started early and built through the afternoon on Saturday.
Due to security concerns, Trudeau and his family left their downtown Ottawa home, the CBC reported.
544
While Perrottet has resisted pressure to increase Covid restrictions amid the surge, businesses have felt the brunt of both a decrease in economic activity and the effect of isolation measures which have led to workforce shortages.
545
In Victoria, 20 deaths and 10,589 new cases were recorded.
“You can see a very significant reduction in the number of people in the community that have Covid.”
546
With the borders now open, universities are hoping the 131,000 international students who have been stuck overseas will return to complete their studies and Australia will resume its place as a world leader in tertiary education.
Hurley said the quality of education offer at Australian universities had deteriorated during the pandemic, according to domestic students.
Instead, it predicted a total revenue loss of $6bn by 2030.
547
She said she had sent 59 documents to New Zealand authorities in Afghanistan but they rejected her application for an emergency return.
548
In some areas, including Enfield in north London, Calderdale in West Yorkshire, and Hertfordshire, public health teams are now recommending that masks be temporarily reinstated in schools where there are significant outbreaks.
549
He called the oversight of the scheme “nothing less than woeful”.
The minister’s dramatic departure drove Rishi Sunak to assure that the government would “do everything we can” to recover stolen funds.
550
Most countries now require a vaccination certificate to enter without quarantine and, or, a negative Covid-19 test result taken up to 48 hours before the traveller departs the UK.
551
The exposure took place last Saturday during a flight to Auckland from the town of Kerikeri, the government said.
552
The passport matter revolves around the date the document was issued.
Until September 2018 you could have up to nine months added to an adult or child’s passport in this way.
553
Questions remain as to how determinedly the government will be able to chase all fraudulent claims, but some changes have been made, including taking steps to ensure that all businesses that are dissolved by their owners are systematically checked for outstanding loans.
554
” Gerrard expected the school plan to be released “very soon”.
The health minister, Natasha Fyles, said from 6pm on Saturday all of the territory would be placed under a seven-day mask mandate outdoors.
555
On Friday afternoon, the Northern Territory announced boosters would be mandated for workers in public-facing roles, with an 11 March deadline for high-risk workers.
556
Let kids see this to reduce their worry.
Levi adds: “A lot of people want to find an alternative [to nasal swabs] because people are afraid of the pain.
557
James and other NHS staff, represented by the legal firm Jackson Osborne, have submitted a document to the high court calling for a review.
558
Some had to shut their doors temporarily.
“The hope is that the return to eating and drinking out will happen quicker than in previous lockdowns, when it took six to eight weeks for recovery to come through.
559
Or do we say we will treat you, but there is no reason why you should have no consequences when there will be for other patients who are having difficulty getting treatment and can do nothing about it
560
The group claims that the leader of the senate and the governor general will sign the document to create a governing committee, which they claim would work to revoke the vaccine mandate.
561
“The Therapeutic Goods Administration in collaboration with the Australian Federal Police are investigating false documentation allegedly used to support the illegal importation and supply of unapproved rapid antigen tests for Covid-19,” the TGA said in a statement on Friday.
562
A recent survey from the NSW customer service department found half of people eligible for the Covid-19 booster didn’t know they were eligible for their third dose.
563
‘Not knowing how it will play out is almost as bad’ NZ just hasn’t suffered the kind of personalised trauma happening overseas, and summer makes a lot of people shrug at the prospect of doom.
564
“This is our last chance,” they said.
NT chief minister Michael Gunner said he understood the calls for a lockdown but did not think it would be workable.
565
“Requests for the highly respected ADF to provide assistance are indicative of the poor resourcing the aged care sector has faced for a long time,” he said.
566
The finance minister, Simon Birmingham, also defended Colbeck on Friday, saying people could “walk and chew gum at the same time”.
567
However, as the UK has provided booster doses to up to 1 million people every day, more than 3 billion people across the world have yet to receive their first dose.
568
But people will still be obliged to wear masks in most indoor places and on public transport while Covid passes will be needed for larger indoor events and gatherings.
569
“The end of the eviction ban has triggered a rising tide of homelessness that could turn into a flood.
570
In the Birmingham branch of variety store Flying Tiger, seven out of 10 customers were wearing masks, and in Foyles bookshop every customer was wearing one.
571
As Omicron spread rapidly around the country towards the end of 2021, health advisers and government ministers stressed that two doses “are not enough” to protect against the new variant, urging those eligible to take up a booster dose as soon as possible.
572
However, manufacturers are providing evidence to the TGA of their tests’ effectiveness as it comes to hand.
“If we don’t use it in that context it could add to disruption.”
573
“It was bad before.
Essential visitors were a crucial support to staff, helping to meet basic care needs for their family members, he said.
574
The federal government believes this will make truck licensing safer and faster, but this measure is not due to be in force until about mid-2022.
575
Care home residents in England will be able to receive unlimited visitors from Monday as the restrictions to tackle the Omicron variant are eased, the Department of Health has said.
576
Checking-in is currently “useless” in stopping the spread of Covid-19 but QR codes can still play an important role as the nation enters a new phase of the pandemic, according to epidemiologists.
577
We need an aged care minister who cares about older Australians.”
“The surge workforce has been pathetic – there haven’t been enough people in the workforce.”
578
Meanwhile, New South Wales recorded 29 deaths and 17,316 new infections.
Western Australia recorded 12 new cases, 10 of which were linked to its Omicron outbreak.
579
Hawes said the online shopping delivery boom had contributed to “extraordinarily high demand” for vans.
580
Time will tell.
The anxiety that accompanies rising case numbers might be disproportionate to the risk New Zealanders face, Johal said.
581
A second source said “conspiracy to pervert would seem to apply” if concerted attempts were made to thwart the police investigation.
582
The police’s internal memo clarifies that wearing the blue and white Star of David, classified as a purely religious symbol, remains legal at demonstrations.
583
“There is no fallback plan from the state government as to what should be done with these now stranded young people.”
584
The tests currently cost the pharmacies up to $17.50 each but the government is providing only a $10 reimbursement, the guild said.
“The biggest problem is that chemists are out of stock.
585
“We don’t know when the pandemic will end,” he said, suggesting that there were lessons that could be learned now that “may be useful moving forward”, such as how to handle outbreaks in aged care
586
“I also note that many of the most significant surges in case numbers of residents infected with Covid have occurred in large aged care homes, with more than 100 residents infected.
587
MPs and anti-corruption experts have warned that the UK government must not delay long-awaited measures to tackle economic crime, after a minister resigned over the government’s failure to prevent more than £4.3bn in fraudulent claims for Covid business loans.
588
While vaccination of healthy five- to 11-year-olds is under discussion that, too, is a difficult decision, he said.
589
While the first minister said the tougher rules were proportionate and had helped suppress the Omicron wave far more effectively than in England, business leaders estimated they had cut spending by £1bn and were unnecessarily strict.
590
But parents have been threatened with legal action.
“These students can be supported to learn from home provided a valid medical certificate is supplied.
591
Asked about the policy, St Basil’s chief executive, Michelle Church, said the lack of supply from government had forced its hand.
592
Neil Coyle, the Labour MP who referred the parties to the Metropolitan police, said Dick had “serious questions to answer about why the investigation could only be launched now.”.
593
He decried what he called “patch-up jobs” of short-term funding arrangements in recent years under the Coalition, saying the health system needed certainty into the future.
594
The NAO had long singled out the government’s “inadequate” attempts to tackle fraud within the £47bn BBLS scheme that was designed to try to help save companies at risk of collapse during the pandemic.
595
Barking, Havering and Redbridge trust in London recently said its existing lack of midwives combined with a likely loss linked to mandatory jabs will pose a major challenge.
596
Gallagher’s letter acknowledged the invitation was at “short notice” because the outbreak occurred over the Christmas New Year period.
597
However, there are still no plans to resume elective surgery in the state.
In Tasmania, there were 643 new cases and one person died from the virus.
598
Dutton announced the outbreak on Sky News on Tuesday morning, saying the government was working with Tongan authorities to keep the boat at sea and make sure there is no threat to the Pacific nation.
599
“CSNSW holds the safety of all staff and inmates in the highest regard as we continue to follow the expert advice from our healthcare provider.”
600
It is clear travel restrictions did not materially slow the spread of Omicron in the UK and so it is important that there are no more kneejerk reactions to future variants.”
601
After the meeting with Champagne, Darby’s group and approximately 30 other trade associations called for concrete action to tackle supply chain problems, including reversing the trucker inoculation mandate.
602
Timing the spending pledge with the imminent return to school, the Labor leader will use a scene-setting speech at the National Press Club on Tuesday to appeal to parents battling anxiety about the resumption of classroom-based learning.
603
“It just feels like my father is expendable to this government.”
Treasurer Josh Frydenberg told Sky News supply chain “pressures” were being felt all over the world.
604
The first Guardian Essential poll of 2022 confirms the prime minister’s approval rating (46%) hasn’t budged since last December, and disapproval of Morrison is up two points to 46%.
605
Sharp said the high demand for rapid tests meant providers were closely protecting the supplies they did have.
606
“I’m delighted,” she said.
Iqbal said she welcomed the return to the office: “I prefer it, it just gives me a break.
Before Christmas no one came in for five days.
607
Consumer-facing businesses have been hit hard by Omicron, and manufacturers have reported a further worrying weakening of order book growth but other business sectors have remained encouragingly robust.
608
Instead it will then be up to individual schools to contact other parents to let them know there has been a positive case in the school community and that they should monitor their child for symptoms.
609
The criteria also states that if countries accept proof of vaccination to waive travel restrictions such as testing or quarantine requirements, they should in principle lift restrictions on travel for all double-dosed international travellers.
610
Further assistance will be provided by the Australian Defence Force to transport more people to appropriate quarantine facilities.”
611
Traditionally, parents have been asked to consent to vaccinations of their children, including those in high school, with vaccine providers “usually reluctant to vaccinate, fearing legal consequences or complaints against them” if this consent is not given.
612
The Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, said that many pensioners will “rock up to their local chemist and there won’t be a rapid antigen test available”.
613
As offices have started to reopen following the relaxation of plan B restrictions, the Centre for Cities said Covid-19 had “levelled down” historically more prosperous high street destinations.
614
“Thousands of frontline workers are now living with an often debilitating condition after being exposed to the virus while protecting this country,” she said.
615
Several health organisations called on ministers to postpone the deadline, but the view is not unanimous.
The Royal College of GPs said the policy should be delayed to prevent staff shortages.
616
The query was referred to the department of home affairs, which said the remaining travel restrictions were needed to “balance the need to safely reopen with the continuing need to protect the Australian community from Covid-19”.
617
Goldfeld said even areas such as child nutrition and child safety had been impacted due to reduced family income and job losses during lockdowns, and parental mental health issues and stresses.
618
Despite a public outcry against the crackdown, authorities urged people to continue to hand over their pets given the growing health risks.
619
Ferguson said a key development was Covid vaccines, in particular those based on mRNA technology, while important lessons had also been learned, such as the need for data to make informed decisions.
620
NHS trust leaders are divided about whether the government should press ahead with mandatory jabs for healthcare workers in England after the prime minister told MPs he was considering relaxing the policy.
621
New Zealand has not previously reported that level of infection.
“I know hearing these sorts of case numbers will sound deeply concerning for people to hear,” Ardern said.
622
Merlino announced on Sunday that Victorian school and early childhood staff will be required to get a booster shot by 25 February or within three months and two weeks of their second jab.
623
” Amy said her department worked out of demountables attached to a hospital, with little support or appreciation for their work.
Voola said families were unsure how and when to access interpreters.
624
Infections from the BA.2 offshoot remain low in the UK but now make up almost half of Omicron cases in Denmark.
The UK’s first confirmed case was confirmed by genome sequencing on 6 December.
625
The government had to pass legislation to compel care homes to make sure all workers in England without medical exemption were fully vaccinated.
626
Helen Rowntree, director of research, services and engagement for Blood Cancer UK, said the needs of immunocompromised people “have not been mentioned at all” by ministers who are justifying the decision.
627
“The lifting of plan B restrictions is appalling,” she said.
Kate calls the lifting of plan B restrictions “a complete nightmare”.
628
Despite the lower efficacy of vaccines in vulnerable groups, the roll-out of third doses before the Omicron wave struck was slow, meaning that many are yet to have a fourth dose, which they would now be eligible for if things had moved quicker in the autumn.
629
Even as we speak, the number of Omicron cases in the community is doubling every three days.”
#Melbourneprotest #gohomedickheads pic.twitter.com/nFUR4HaDPJ
630
No date was provided for the return but Steve Barclay, the Cabinet Office minister and chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster, said it was important to maximise the use of office space from next week.
631
My phone lit up with messages from friends who also have family in WA, but no one really had the energy to be angry any more.
And the news is bad.
632
“This will correspond to more than 10,000 people with long Covid after one year.”
“All we have is models like ours, but we need more primary data to help inform our models.
633
Following Aurizon’s victory, terminations skyrocketed, according to FWC reports and research by the Australia Institute.
“We reject that,” she said.
634
Some teachers told Guardian Australia they have quit over concerns about how the outbreak was being managed.
She is worried it could mean a return to remote schooling.
635
They are facing a financial crisis,” Hall says.
I think we can both agree that the health system is not up to dealing with Omicron.”
636
Kristalina Georgieva said Beijing should reassess the use of lockdowns to limit the spread of the highly contagious Omicron variant since it became clear the harm to human health was less severe than the Delta variant.
637
Walton had tested positive for the fourth time.
At the end of January 2021, both of Walton’s parents caught Covid.
On leaving the UK she had a negative PCR test.
638
But headteachers who spoke to the Guardian said that they were not seeing a drop in cases among students despite the improved picture nationally.
639
Beckett added that the 4.7% monthly drop in fuel sales was consistent with people staying at home rather than risking a trip to the high street.
640
They arrest people anyway for doing nothing,” she said.​
By Thursday, just 68 had been handed over by the public, according to government figures.
641
Hanson wants a royal commission into the Covid response (so far so good, more scrutiny couldn’t hurt given the stonewalling of the Senate Covid committee) … because, she says, Australians have been “lied to” about the number of Covid deaths.
642
Nevertheless, in journalism, the proportion of women editing national newspapers has doubled from last year to 42%.
643
At least nine cities across six provinces in mainland China have reported Omicron cases.
Regardless, officials went on to say they had found the virus on six other packages sent from Toronto.
644
So the community is very angry.”
The response group requested that it be given “information from health on the protocols for residents to return from quarantine.
645
Drops in hospitalisations, the number of workers in isolation, and case positivity rates pointed to declining transmission, she said.
646
She wants a return of short-stay surgery in adequately-equipped hospitals and facilities.
“Across the board, all specialties have been affected.
647
The federal government has accused rapid antigen test suppliers of misleading customers about how many RATs they can deliver and then attempting to blame the commonwealth when they can’t deliver the “missing” tests.
648
Some pharmacy owners are being forced to place very large orders in a bid to push the unit price below the rebate.
“These are false claims.”
649
Rival company Workspace said the decision to ditch plan B restrictions would further boost business confidence at a time when its customers were already returning to the office.
650
Secondary schools across England say they will encourage students to wear masks indoors while the Omicron variant continues to spread rapidly, despite the government’s announcement curtailing the wearing of masks in classrooms this week.
651
” However, he called on Sunak to extend the lower, temporary 12.5% rate of VAT for hospitality businesses, and bring forward budget plans to reduce duty on draught beer, scheduled for 2023.
652
Though Omicron cases have risen steeply, experts said the decrease in cases was likely to occur more slowly.
“Sadly, this isn’t the end of Covid, probably.”
653
No change was announced for bridging visa holders.
Morrison’s comments infuriated Emma Cochrane, who has been trapped in Australia since the start of the pandemic.
654
Vacancy rates have almost doubled since April and now stand at 11% in England, the Care Quality Commission regulator said this week.
655
“From 12.01am on Saturday 5 February, the hard border will stay, with new settings that will have a focus on both safety and compassion,” McGowan said.
656
There have been signs of a growing return to office working in London, with 8% more journeys recorded on the London underground network compared with a week ago.
657
Government data covering the whole of the UK showed that the number of Covid patients in hospitals had fallen again in recent days.
658
He later added that children not being double-vaccinated before returning to school should not be an “impediment” to classes resuming, but strongly encouraged parents to get their children vaccinated.
659
Andrews said it was unlikely the state government would open discussions with the World Surf League over possible exemptions for unvaccinated athletes following the Djokovic debacle.
660
“Why have they intervened?
“They finally got the filters to ensure clean indoor air but it took a lot of effort on my part to get them to move,” he said.
661
“As early educators and children become infected, or directed to isolate at home, early learning services are being left in a precarious position,” Rishworth said.
662
“The oral therapies are going to be easier to use,” Griffin said.
A research fellow in clinical pharmacology at Flinders University, associate professor Andrew Rowland, said most existing Covid-19 treatments and vaccines targeted the virus’s spike protein.
“The expense of supplying Paxlovid to these Australians will place a further burden on already overstretched healthcare system.
663
“Recovery in New South Wales and Victoria continued to have a large influence on the national figures, with employment in these two states increasing by 32,000 and 25,000 people between November and December,” Jarvis said.
664
Unions have also criticised the proposal, saying forklifts are dangerous machines that require skilled operation.
“They are not dodgem cars,” he said in a Twitter post.
665
Nursing is now the fifth most popular subject studied at higher education in England, having recovered from a fall in applications that followed the government’s removal of bursary funding in 2017.
666
Admissions are unlikely to reach the levels hit this winter, but one concern is that the rise in cases could coincide with waning booster immunity in older and more vulnerable people.
667
Local directors of public health will be able to recommend the use of face coverings where this is judged to be necessary in individual schools or in the wider local area, although they may do so for a limited time only.
668
The modelling assumed only baseline public health safety measures and partial contract tracing, the Sydney Morning Herald reported at the time.
669
As the number of Covid cases in Australia has become impossible to accurately determine using test and case numbers alone, epidemiologists say it is crucial to undertake population-wide surveys to understand both current levels of infection and cumulative past infections.
670
What is a pulse oximeter used for?
Another said the products were “quite popular at the moment” and that they hadn’t had any available since Christmas.
671
To cheers from some on the Conservative benches, Johnson announced an immediate end to the need for pupils to wear masks at secondary schools.
672
Sophie Brown, a senior physiotherapist, said when she asked Hicks not to film, Hicks replied that she paid her taxes “so I can do what I want”.
673
“It’s safe.
The hospital is one of the state’s biggest, and has been one of the priority destinations for Covid patients throughout the pandemic.
674
Scott Morrison has announced financial incentives to lure international workers to Australia as he continues to defend his government’s handling of the pandemic in the face of the Omicron surge.
675
That resulted in hundreds of fines being challenged in the magistrates court.
“This unfairness was exacerbated by the lack of an independent review process for Covid fines.
676
Since then, however, there has been a stark increase in meningitis B cases among adolescents and young adults in England.
677
The backlog will mean clinics are having to play catch up for three months with patients who’ve missed those procedures …
IVF is not a choice.”
678
Officials announced on Tuesday evening that new spaces in the country’s managed isolation and quarantine system (MIQ) would not be released.
679
The cabinet will meet on Wednesday morning to examine Covid data and review plan B restrictions imposed in December amid the rapid spread of the variant, with Johnson set to update the Commons later in the day.
680
In total, there are now over 100 countries on the CDC’s level four list.
The CDC encourages you get a Covid-19 vaccine booster dose if you are eligible.”
681
NHS trusts should be left to continue their efforts to persuade vaccine-hesitant staff to get jabbed and not have to dismiss much-needed staff, she added.
682
Before the statement, opposition parties and business groups called on Sturgeon to ease restrictions quickly.
683
Perrottet on Tuesday also confirmed the government was considering asking students in their final year of university to provide a “buffer” to staff shortages, a plan that has come in for criticism from teachers groups.
684
They are tired.
However, Guardian Australia understands that authorities in Victoria have not resorted to placing paramedics in Melbourne on call.
685
Another listing offers unboxed kits on Facebook marketplace for $20 per test.
The advertising of medical devices is strictly regulated by law in Australia, including on Facebook.
686
But instead, following the worse pay squeeze for two centuries, real pay is falling, and they now face a cost-of-living crisis,” she said.
687
The seven-day average figure for cases in England has been falling in recent days and stood at 1,531 cases for every 100,000 people on 12 January, the latest date for which figures were available.
688
Government ministers said Blanquer had been working constantly over the new year period and was in permanent contact with his team.
689
In response, they ordered the immediate suspension of hamster sales and imports of all rodents.
Do not kiss or abandon them on the streets.”
690
Kelly said the real-world experience gave Australian authorities additional assurance about the safety of the vaccine for children.
691
“We believe the settings we have in place are appropriate,” he said.
Tasmania lifted restrictions on interstate travel for the vaccinated, as the state recorded 1,310 new cases.
692
The aim is to have all students back on campus on 14 February.
Other states say they will rely on an existing workforce of casual and relief teachers.
693
“Again please accept our apology.”
ACCC Chair Rod Sims said prices had increased in recent weeks, and that businesses had been asked to explain their prices.
694
A separate ANZ report out on Thursday showed there is no sign yet of a reversal in the “Omicron malaise in spending” with a decline of 27% in the first half of January compared with the first half of December.
695
“We do not have national data collection for Covid-19, full stop,” he says.
”Esterman says a national centre for data collection is needed.
696
Hong Kong has continually adjusted its quarantine rules for aircrew, dramatically tightening them after the Omicron outbreak in late December, leading the airline to cancel most of its planned passenger and cargo flights in January.
697
Keeping more cases in magistrates courts, which have been “less severely affected” by Covid, means crown courts can better focus their resources on tackling the backlog, the MoJ said.
698
Two senior sources said Covid certification and home working rules were “unlikely to continue” past 26 January, but mask-wearing could remain.
699
Teys operated for several days after at least 140 of its nearly 400 staff tested positive for Covid, before closing on Thursday.
700
The federal health minister, Greg Hunt, denied on Monday the commonwealth was requisitioning supplies of rapid antigen tests, as the Health Act allows.
701
“Our phones are dead.
But they should hold him to account for the poor state of preparation. “RAT test remain in short supply.
702
“Practices are having to triage care … some patients may need to wait to get an appointment.
“However, staff and patient safety must not be compromised,” she said.
703
On Monday, authorities urged citizens not to order goods from overseas, after they claimed that a recent Omicron infection detected in Beijing had come from an international package sent from Canada.
704
The effect of higher US interest rates will be to make it more costly to finance dollar-denominated debts.
“Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one.
705
The Office for National Statistics, on the other hand, counts all deaths where the virus was mentioned on the death certificate.
Deaths by ethnicity
706
The Djokovic case has drawn public attention to the so-called “God powers” held by Australian immigration ministers, granting them extraordinarily broad powers to summarily cancel visas.
707
Also on Monday the NSW government announced a package to support festival organisers in the wake of restrictions on major events in the state during the Omicron wave.
708
“Accordingly, the meeting today resolved to write to all employers reminding them of their obligation to do all that is reasonable and practical to keep workers safe.”
709
Labor’s home affairs and immigration spokesperson, Kristina Keneally, welcomed the court’s decision to uphold Hawke’s cancellation of the visa, but said the Australian government “never should have granted Novak Djokovic that visa in the first place”.
710
France’s parliament has given final approval to the government’s latest measures to tackle Covid-19, including a vaccine pass contested by anti-vaccine protesters.
711
Dr Susan Hopkins, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) chief medical adviser, said cases appeared to be “plateauing” in parts of the UK, and added that while cases were still relatively high, there had also been a slowdown in hospital admissions.
712
“Given WA’s health worker shortage and the inevitable influx of Covid in the community in less than a month’s time, the McGowan government should be doing everything to ensure these health workers can work here, which includes health worker exemptions.”
713
Barbera says he is still struggling to come to terms with a health policy that expects and accepts that hundreds of thousands of Australians will get Covid, after two years where a handful of cases would send the city into lockdown.
714
Let’s go back to that 17-18 April weekend, and I just want to say something about what I did during that week and other people will have exactly the same story.
715
The party says it will scrap the qualifying time for sick pay so that workers can access it immediately, reducing the pressure people feel to work while unwell or potentially unwell.
716
Japan’s Kyodo news agency also reported the train’s arrival.
While Chinese data show some limited trade has continued, most shipments appear to be using North Korean seaports, not trains across its land borders.
717
Recent worst-case scenario modelling suggested 6,000 people would be hospitalised at the apex of the outbreak, with 10% of those patients in intensive care.
718
South Australia’s health department came under fire for using tents to house Aboriginal homeless people who were close contacts in an outbreak.
She says she’s lucky to have the space.
719
While hospital admissions have not yet begun to fall, their rate of increase is also slowing down, Hopkins told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.
720
We’re all just trying to ride it out and come out the other side – and hope we’ve got our heads intact,” he said.
It will hit UK cinemas in late January.
721
Hawke said the consequences of Djokovic’s visa cancellation were “significant”.
Djokovic’s treatment has drawn fierce reaction in Serbia, where the Belgrade-born player is a national hero.
722
The Naracoorte exemption is the only instance the ACTU is aware of in Australia where Covid-positive staff were being allowed back to work.
723
Anonymous, Victoria “I had a booking with a state vaccination hub on the 11th.
It was accepting walk-in adults and there was a slow but steady stream with no wait time.
724
“The way they purchase has far more flexibility in it than the way the far larger multinational supermarket chains do business,” he said.
725
Indeed, much of the criticism focused on Perrottet comes despite his bullish approach to living with the virus being mimicked by other Australian leaders.
726
It said: “There is a quantity of vaccine in the system, which was released in December to support the booster campaign, that will potentially reach its expiry date within the next couple of weeks before it can be fully used.
727
Sunak welcomed the news that Britain’s economy was larger than before the pandemic.
728
Calum Semple, a professor in child health and outbreak medicine at the University of Liverpool, said infants were generally experiencing very mild symptoms.
729
There have been more than 60 complaints of violence against elected officials so far this month, including over the vaccine issue, the interior minister said this week.
730
Sarah Crofts, the head of analytical outputs for the Covid-19 infection survey, said Omicron continued to be the dominant variant while Delta declined.
731
“The rollout of the mandatory registration of RAT results happened fast, and with limited community consultation.
732
Drakeford said that from Saturday the number of people who could be present at outdoor events would rise from 50 to 500.
Nightclubs will be able to reopen.
733
It looks inevitable that output fell in December owing to widespread staff absences, the introduction of the government’s plan B restrictions, and individuals becoming more cautious.
734
From Monday, two of Victoria’s quarantine hotels will be converted to facilities for Covid-19 patients, in partnership with the Melbourne Health and Northern Health services.
735
The chief health officer, Dr Kerry Chant, said she expected that up to 50% of the state’s population could become infected with Covid-19 during the first wave of the Omicron variant.
736
“Singing and dancing at a major recreational facility is in breach of the public health order,” the NSW health minister, Brad Hazzard, said in a statement on Thursday evening.
737
“The government made great play of its efforts to provide laptops to schools last year but it seems it did not see the job through.
738
The first minster, Mark Drakeford, will set out a two-week plan on Friday to ease restrictions that have been in place since Boxing Day.
Wales in “alert level 2”, meaning nightclubs are closed, a maximum of six people can meet in a pub and only up to 50 people can watch outside sporting events or take part in activity such as parkrun.
739
Quebec has also announced plans to tax residents who choose to remain unvaccinated.
On Wednesday, Canada’s average weekly hospitalization reached 6,704, the highest in the pandemic.
740
Cressida Dick’s cat will know that multiple criminal offences were committed.
Did Martin Reynolds consult with Met police officers about the Covid restrictions, or inform them of the event?”
741
Pritchard also raised grave doubts about a deal under which her organisation would have to pay independent hospitals up to £525m if they did end up treating any NHS patients.
742
An hour before Sturgeon’s attack on Rees-Mogg at Holyrood, the UK government announced a “landmark agreement” setting out how the UK and devolved governments will work together “based upon on the existing values of mutual respect, maintaining trust and positive working”.
743
“The ACT, like all jurisdictions, is working hard to manage its testing supplies, including reagents and consumables, which are in high demand across the country,” a spokesperson for ACT Health said.
744
“Students cannot learn properly because attendance varies wildly, and a hybrid of in-house and distance learning is impossible to put in place,” the SNUipp-FSU said, adding that absent teachers were not being replaced.
745
In another example of the intense strain on a service struggling to provide both Covid and non-Covid care, the number of people forced to wait more than two years for surgery hit 18,585 – a new record high and up 15% on the previous month.
746
Notwithstanding, it has been the greatest privilege of my professional career to have served the people of the UK during this time,” Van-Tam said.
747
Thousands of people head there for ski breaks at this time of year, so this will be a huge relief for customers with holidays booked there for the next few weeks, who have been waiting anxiously for news.
748
The deal, which expires on 31 March, comes after the Covid-19 outbreak prompted NHS England in March 2020 to strike a similar deal with the private sector, which cost about £400m a month.
749
“After reviewing all of the evidence, we’ve made the decision to reduce the minimum self-isolation period to five full days in England.
750
She said free rapid tests were a “key measure” needed to keep workers and the community safe.
It is likely we will need to revisit the scope of these measures over coming weeks.”
751
The virus won’t be wiped out because waning immunity means there will be a constant supply of people who are newly susceptible to the infection.
752
The spokesperson said the centre was following “standard departmental protocols”, including contact tracing, quarantining, testing and cleaning.
Rydges was removed from the Victorian hotel quarantine program.
753
“Employers do not want to pay, leaving the cost to be borne by individual workers.
“This idea that everybody gets them for free, I don’t know about that,” he told the Nine Network.
754
As Omicron spreads through Queensland – which recorded 14,914 cases and six deaths on Thursday – police said the sentry duty is no longer the best use of their time.
755
“They can die if they got [Covid] pretty instantly.”
Having Covid patients in the HDU was also complicating the work because of the onerous wearing of “hazmat” level personal protective equipment.
756
They told the MEN: “I think the NHS has responded incredibly well, but we were bracing ourselves for this … we’ve not been overwhelmed but, yet again, we’ve had to ask them to go above and beyond.”
757
Dominello admitted that it will be very difficult to enforce but the government had to send a message that reporting a positive result was important.
758
“As the deadline approaches some frontline staff will have to leave their present roles if they continue to decline to be vaccinated.
759
However, other Tory backbenchers said Johnson’s account had bought him the right to wait for the investigation, which could report as soon as next week.
760
A Chinese woman has become an overnight sensation after she posted video diaries documenting her life after being stuck at a blind date’s house.
761
In addition to working in the Chapel Street restaurant, he cut five hours a day from its opening hours.
She said businesses urgently need financial support.
762
“An oximeter may be useful for people self-managing at home, but particularly for people who have risk factors for more severe disease, in collaboration with their medical team,” Price says.
763
It said truck drivers were also in short supply – a problem that needs higher wages and better conditions to fix – and “warehouses are bursting at the seams across many countries” due to a surge in online shopping.
764
Home care providers say critical care services, including nursing and medication needs, are being left to family members as they juggle limited staff numbers due to explosive growth in Covid case numbers.
765
“This is very welcome news, not only for the thousands of UK holidaymakers and people visiting friends and family in France, but also for the thousands of UK ski-tour operators that have been in an effective shutdown for 22 months,” he said.
766
Germany has reported a record number of daily coronavirus cases as the Omicron variant increases its spread.
The hope is that this will help to boost vaccine take-up.
767
with so many cases appearing every day and that expected to continue until its peak, this will have an obvious impact right across our supply chains,” he said.
768
In March, it was discovered that the majority of a $250m federal rescue package for the sector had not been allocated to those in need.
We need support until things settle down.”
769
Major construction projects, such as new roads and other infrastructure, have been gearing up to start in early 2022 as part of state and federal economic stimulus plans, Nieuwenhuis said.
770
In a separate email the official wrote: “If we establish a precedent whereby people who have no ability to fly find themselves at a place where there is a [navy] vessel, that is heading for [New Zealand], with available space and medical staff on board, I can live with that.”
771
She said her cabinet would continue to consider the possibility of extending the requirement for Covid passports, which are currently needed for nightclub entry, to other venues.
772
“Things like indoor air quality and ventilation, people have talked about it, we’ve known for at least 18 months that Covid is airborne, and there’s been practically no investment in improving air quality in indoor settings.”
773
“Once the ACV’s final report is received and reviewed by relevant parties, the TGA will be in a position to make a decision,” a spokesperson for the Department of Health said.
774
“They’re not designed to protect [the wearer] from airborne disease,” Powers said.
Powers says ideally the government should provide everyone with free P2 masks.
775
The average lag between infection and death is 16-18 days and can be up to eight weeks, according to the ONS, so the Omicron death toll may increase further in coming weeks.
776
This morning, your ministers across news outlets maintained the frankly laughable notion that it would be impossible to know whether you yourself attended this event of 20 May 2020.
Two have already confirmed that you were.
777
The Met have so far said only that they are aware of the latest revelations and in touch with a Cabinet Office inquiry conducted by the senior civil servant Sue Gray.
778
The heroes of Barnsley’s coronavirus pandemic are cast in bronze in the heart of the town centre.
That’s what it feels like the prime minister is doing.”
779
The prognosis is grim around England: Transport for the West Midlands forecasts a £50m shortfall in bus funding after March without government intervention.
780
Reports say Reynolds’ email went out to about 100 Downing Street staff, with between 30 and 40 people attending in the end.
Witnesses have told the BBC and others that both the Johnsons were there.
781
The government’s suggestion of possible incentives was described by Hughes at a ministerial webinar with council leaders and ministers on 17 December.
782
However, the UKHSA has updated its blogpost, which now states: “In the UK our advice is to self-isolate for at least six full days from the point at which you have symptoms or get a positive test, whichever is first.”
783
The airport had called for higher charges of up to £43 to help recoup losses caused by the pandemic.
The levy is likely to be passed directly on to travellers.
784
“Australia’s 21 million hens are still laying eggs, and farmers are working around the clock to get those eggs to their customers,” he said.
785
In New South Wales, ambulance services are also under severe strain.
“NSW Ambulance also recalled 11 emergency medical call takers who were sent to Victoria to assist in control centres there.
786
David Plank, ANZ’s head of Australian economics, said the drop in sentiment was likely caused by the rapid rise of Omicron cases across Australia.
787
Meanwhile, Price says reports have also emerged of shipments arriving with expired doses.
“Australia’s front-line health workers are doing a fantastic job,” he said.
788
“Gold Coast remains a hotspot, they had an additional 23 admissions to their wards yesterday … a typical hospital ward is somewhere between 20 to 30 patients,” Gerrard said.
789
Despite a high vaccination rate in Canada and masking requirements in major cities, the recently discovered Omicron variant has nonetheless strained provincial healthcare systems across the country.
790
Second, the number of hospitals that have been forced to cancel elective surgery in the face of intense pressure will increase the headline total when the same statistics come out next month.
791
The story prompted an outcry.
Guidance allowing the “rule of six” outdoors was not brought in until June 2020 and large gatherings remained banned.
792
Last week, the transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said more than one in six NHS trusts across England had declared a critical incident due to Covid pressures in recent weeks, adding that the Omicron variant was putting “very real” pressure on the health service.
793
Headteachers have reported that staff with young children have been unable to come to work because of nursery closures.
794
According to the latest figures, there were 17,120 Covid patients in hospital in England and 1,432 in Scotland, up from 14,210 and 1,033 respectively on the previous Monday.
795
Sadler said some of the federal stockpile had been held up as a result of supply chain problems, with transport routes being disrupted by the growing number of infections.
796
The group is planning to open at least one new store in the year ahead, in Blackpool, while the Shrewsbury store will relocate.
797
“The family can’t believe what’s going on,” Farage said.
An Australian-style points system can be used to be increase or decrease immigration numbers.
798
If it is approved, the government says the law will come into effect on 17 January.
More than 100,000 protesters rallied across France on Saturday against further restrictions on the unvaccinated.
799
To work, though, they needed to be backed up by the supply of rapid tests to regional areas, Crothers said.
Guardian Australia has approached Teys for comment.
800
Pressure has grown on authorities with the Winter Olympics around the corner, and some local officials have been punished for alleged inaction, leading to increasingly harsh responses.
801
“What we know is that if you don’t get the health outcomes right, the adverse impact on the economy will be stronger,” Albanese said.
802
Carrig said if the government did not change its position to also distribute the testing kits to chemists, some business owners may be forced to consider if they can take part in the scheme.
803
The pair called for a “significant tightening” of the number of New Zealanders entering the country.
The country’s borders have been shut since March 2020.
804
But on Monday Perrottet insisted no decisions had been made about the plan, saying the issue would be discussed at a national cabinet meeting this week.
805
The government says it has been clear, along with medical experts and institutions, that Covid-19 vaccines are safe for pregnant women and have no impact on fertility.
806
Furniture retailer Ikea has cut sick pay for unvaccinated UK staff who are forced to self-isolate because of close contact with someone with Covid-19, it has emerged.
807
A further 141,472 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases were recorded as of 9am on Sunday, the fourth consecutive day that infection numbers have fallen.
808
The issue is summed up by vaccine expert Peter English.
“Other countries have more of a tradition for mandatory vaccinations, however.
809
During that period of time, parents will not have sent their children to school.
Schools will operate with skeleton staff so the children of essential workers can still attend from 24 January.
810
With case numbers spiking due to Omicron, Australians are adjusting to growing hospitalisations, workforce disruptions and an increasing onus on managing the pandemic themselves by recording rapid antigen test results.
811
“The self-surveillance staff Covid tests are almost 4 to 5 days behind.” A whole range of patients were exposed.
The Alfred was approached for comment.
812
More than 150,000 people have died in the UK from coronavirus since the start of the pandemic, according to government figures.
813
Data shows that 90% of over-12s eligible for the Covid shot are fully vaccinated.
On the capital’s streets, protesters accused Macron of politicising the pandemic in the run-up to the election.
814
The emergence of Omicron could be the “first ray of light” towards living with Covid as an endemic disease, according to a government scientific adviser.
815
It is expected the RAT reporting system will be able to handle more than 50,000 positive results a day – but the mostly self-administered tests have proved difficult to find in pharmacies and supermarkets.
816
“We are constantly being crippled by a lack of transfer options” with ambulances often unavailable because of their own shortages, a senior staffer who requested anonymity said.
817
“Central London’s economy has suffered more than any other area during the pandemic.
Dutch architecture company MVRDV drew up the designs for the Mound.
818
Regardless of the cost debate, the critical problem Australia currently faces is that there are no rapid antigen tests left to sell, let alone give away.
819
The testing centres are full and I’ve been to 13 pharmacies today looking for a RAT.
Multiple PCR testing sites in small towns have closed due to lack of staff.
820
Vaccination is now a matter of life and death.
“So it may surprise us how resilient they are, given it’s not the easiest place to survive at the best of times.”
821
Seriously.
“You shouldn’t assume that just because you had your booster that morning you have increased protection immediately.
What should I do?
822
We’re looking at nursing graduates who may be able to be brought on early.”
Patients who need ambulance care to attend hospital may also find wait times are getting longer.
823
“The idea is to slow this down as much as possible so we don’t all get sick at the same time.”
Booy says Omicron is “extremely unlikely to be devastating if you’re boosted.
824
As a result, data experts are concerned at the reliability of the figures being used to inform our decisions, with one saying that announcing daily case numbers at this point “feels completely arbitrary”.
825
The government’s own impact assessment of its policy concluded that as many as 73,000 staff may leave rather than get jabbed.
826
Similarly, while infection levels have risen in all regions of England, the trend for the final few days of 2021 suggests infections may no longer be increasing.
827
A recent poll showed that less than a quarter of those surveyed in Hong Kong approved of the government’s performance.
828
Economists said the latest figures from the UK construction sector offered an encouraging early sign that supply shortages were beginning to ease, but warned that the emergence of Omicron threatened to derail recent progress in resolving bottlenecks.
829
“In fact, around 10,000 more colleagues across the NHS were absent each day last week compared with the previous seven days and almost half of all absences are now down to Covid.
830
The number of English care homes that recorded at least one positive Covid case in the last week of 2021 rose nearly 40% compared with before Christmas, to 764 – more than at the previous peak of the pandemic in January 2021.
831
The Port of San Francisco confirmed this arrangement in a statement to local reports.
The CDC said the investigation had been undertaken and the ship was now under observation.
832
Joyce was forced to isolate in a hotel in Washington DC after his visit to the UK.
On Thursday the prime minister, Scott Morrison, announced concession card holders would be able to get 10 RATs for free through pharmacies, but stated there was not support in national cabinet for tests to be made freely available to everyone.
National cabinet also agreed to remove the requirement for people who test positive on a RAT to get a PCR test.
833
Under the worst-case scenario, whereby 600 ICU beds will be occupied by Covid patients, the state’s intensive care capacity would be hovering just under capacity.
834
” Innes Willox, the chief executive of the Australian Industry Group, also said people should be allowed to return to work immediately after getting a negative Covid test.
835
New state modelling shows the health system will come under increased pressure in the next few weeks although Perrottet on Friday described the predictions as “encouraging”.
836
Due to the rising number of cases and differing reporting periods for each jurisdiction the most recent day’s data may not be complete.
837
The system will be made available from “next week.”
Non-urgent surgeries have been suspended until mid-February, to ease the pressure on the health system.
838
The education secretary, Nadhim Zahawi, conceded in the Commons on Wednesday that schools were already seeing staff absences and these were likely to get worse in the coming weeks, exceeding last term’s 8% peak.
839
In Wales, support payments are given out for self-reported tests without the need for a confirmatory PCR.
840
Dr Elysia Thornton-Benko, a GP with Bondi Road Doctors, said her clinic received an email from the federal government’s vaccine operations centre on 23 December, advising that the first shipments would be delayed until sometime next week due to “unprecedented demand”.
841
For those asking, all players go through the same visa process overseen by Tennis Australia to play the Australian Open (as non Australians are currently not able to enter).
842
While the first wave of Covid multiplied the risk of death by a similar amount for most people, there were stark exceptions.
843
In Cape York’s Indigenous communities, locals are anxious for rain.
“[In previous outbreaks] Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people had been infected at twice the rate.
844
However, from 1 January this transitioned to Queensland, meaning that medical evacuations will now take residents to be treated in that state.
845
The CDNC and PHLN paper also discussed potential barriers to Australia’s testing regime, suggesting that Australia only has the capability and capacity to meet “the current testing demands”.
846
Week by week allocations depends on ordering rates by individual vaccine providers.”
The various booking systems for children’s vaccinations are also experiencing problems.
847
The senior NSW medical official said the whole national and state policy relied on the assumption high Covid vaccination rates would mean there wouldn’t be “a serious rise in hospital admissions due to Covid”.
848
Data released on Thursday also reveals that in the UK there are 17,988 Covid patients in hospital, up from 17,295 the day before.
849
He said that the news had prompted his firm’s busiest day for website traffic and booking inquiries in more than a year, “which is something we couldn’t have imagined a month ago, when these testing rules came in and consumer confidence plummeted”.
850
Cases of people being infected with flu and coronavirus at the same time have been reported in a number of countries and has led to the rise of the term “flurona”, although the moniker is misleading as it erroneously implies the two viruses have merged.
851
French MPs have passed the government’s controversial vaccine pass bill after three days of an angry stop-start debate.
852
The transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said ministers were trying to find the right compromise between imposing further restrictions and not allowing hospitals to be “overrun” given new cases of the virus have reached historically high levels.
853
” Unions strongly opposed the idea, which they doubt is practical, and repeated their call for the government to provide free RATs for small businesses.
854
The woman’s story and an accompanying video went viral on social media, and was reported by local Chinese media.
Xi’an has recorded about 1,800 cases since 9 December.
855
After first learning of the Covid outbreak, Dimitrios pleaded with management to evacuate all Covid positive patients from the facility, to “avert a disaster of the likes of Newmarch House and St Basil’s”.
856
The Victorian health minister, Martin Foley, said people who returned a positive RAT would receive the same clinical and financial support as those with positive PCR results.
857
The health minister, Greg Hunt, announced on Monday that the federal government had bought an additional 45,000 units of sotrovimab, bringing the national stockpile to 81,000.
858
“People must be fully vaccinated, as defined by Atagi, to gain quarantine-free entry into Australia,” the letter of 29 November said.
859
“However, it’s ultimately up to him to discuss with the public his condition if you choose to do that, and the reason why he received an exemption.
860
Juncker said with the highly transmissible Omicron, Canadians could need upwards of 600–700m tests a month.
861
Elliott said UK officials were “very surprised” by the quantities Innova could supply during discussions that took place in August 2020.
Innova has said that the tests are effective.
862
Travel association Abta said the decision to reduce the testing requirements was “extremely welcome” but warned that the “damage had already been done”.
863
So the huge surge in cases – 2 million were estimated to have had Covid in the week before Christmas – will have inevitably meant a large number of people postponing their booster.
864
The lowest levels of infection were found in the south-west, where one in 30 are estimated to have had Covid in the week ending 31 December.
865
On the other side of the bay, Hotel Sorrento, which services millionaire’s playground the Mornington Peninsula, closed suddenly on New Year’s Eve “due to health & safety reasons”, operators said on social media.
866
One test distributor said the approval process for an at-home Covid test had taken several months, despite the TGA having previously approved another supplier to sell identical tests for home use.
867
Eighteen staff, many of them senior, have resigned since December out of a roster of about 150, citing burnout and the better conditions offered over the border.
868
He explained that he could not force French people to get vaccinated on pain of prison or fines but life could be made very difficult for them without a vaccine.
869
However, sales rose among all the leading supermarket chains compared with the final 12 weeks of 2019.
870
He said it was also making it more difficult to find room for patients including serious cases coming via accident and emergency departments.
871
The first minister came under pressure from opposition parties over the quality of government data after it emerged that John Swinney, her Covid recovery minister, had used old survey figures to defend Scotland’s restrictions.
872
However, unions warned that the current crisis around the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant should not be used as cover for long-term cuts, while passenger representatives called for first and last services to be maintained throughout.
873
The FTEOs used in all four anti-fogging sprays were also analyzed in the new study and exhibited substantial cell-altering toxicity and conversion to fat cells during lab tests, said Herkert.
874
The agency added that this approach replicated the one taken between January and March last year, when confirmatory PCR tests were also suspended.
875
State and territory leaders met on Wednesday to consider how to overcome the national testing crisis which has seen pathology services overwhelmed, rapid tests in short supply, and price gouging by some retailers.
876
The prime minister, Scott Morrison, subsequently said when Djokovic arrived “if he is not vaccinated he must provide acceptable proof that he cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons”.
877
They said hospital staff saw and brought her inside and to the operating room, but the child died.
On Tuesday, China reported 41 new symptomatic community cases, including 35 in Xi’an.
878
At one Barchester home in Shrewsbury 17 staff are off and 22 residents have tested positive while at a home in east London 27 staff are off and 20 residents have tested positive.
879
The Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, said the idea was “ridiculous” and finally called for the tests to be made freely available.
“Always have been.
880
Coles also apologised and promised shelves would be restocked as soon as possible.
Coles also said supply issues included a lack of shipping pallets and transport capacity.
881
“You have to laugh or you’ll cry,” Milhe said.
He also pointed to reports from South Africa of people suffering “distinct infections as little as a month apart”.
882
“This is because you are unlikely to be infectious after the 10th day of your isolation period.
However, there is a caveat for those isolating without symptoms.
883
Sir Chris Witty, England’s chief medical officer, said that while Omicron was expected to cause fewer people to need intensive care treatment, the NHS still faced “very substantial pressure” on its services, exacerbated by staff absences.
884
According to a report released by researchers at Imperial College London last month, the risk of reinfection with Omicron is more than five times higher than with Delta.
885
While hospitalisations have risen steeply with the Omicron wave, immunity conferred by vaccines and past infection, combined with the variant being intrinsically milder, has kept daily admissions and bed occupancy substantially lower than during the peak last January.
886
During the pandemic the department scaled up “the provision of regular high-quality social media content” for use by Australian embassies.
887
Supplies have run down during Omicron, but in theory each household can do this this every day here in the UK.
It’s expected the tests will be sent out from this month.
888
“The light at the end of a tunnel is a fricking train at the moment,” said Gil Wilson, a senior nurse at the Lismore Base hospital and a NSW Nurses and Midwives Association delegate.
889
In secondary schools, mass Covid testing is under way as part of a staggered return for pupils over the next few days.
890
The new pass was intended to introduce “heavier constraints on the non-vaccinated”, he admitted.
Alexis Corbière of LFI said members of the governing party were to blame for the stalemate.
891
It comes after the British Medical Association and Royal College of Nursing called for health staff to be prioritised for rapid tests to ease staffing issues.
892
“The numbers are showing no signs of slowing down, unfortunately,” she said.
His counterpart in NSW, Chris Minns, went further, saying the tests “need to be free of charge”.
893
“There’s obviously reasons everything slowed down,” Paipetis said.
If the data is inaccurate, it begs the question, what’s the quality of the decision-making process?
894
Masks were strongly recommended for primary school students.
In the UK, similar ventilation advice was criticised as unworkable in the context of a harsh winter.
895
“I’m seeing this inconsistency and an unwillingness to do anything about it.
“The risks associated with overseas travellers have not changed,” a spokesperson said.
896
He immediately suspected it was to do with his brother’s website, a citizen news project called Terminus 2049.
– Huang had also interviewed Chen and written about Mei.
897
The determination also noted that Wiles had also been the victim of doxxing – in which personal information is published about a person online – while Hendy has been physically confronted at his university office by a person who threatened to “see him soon”.
898
“This is what is happening in other jurisdictions around the world.
The Nationals senator Matt Canavan said the TGA was to blame for the hold-up, and said making the tests free would exacerbate demand.
899
On Tuesday, authorities confirmed the outbreak had spread to Aboriginal communities at Northern Peninsula, Woorabinda and Mornington Island in addition to growing outbreaks at Cherbourg and Palm Island.
900
If you cannot safely isolate in your home, public health departments in all states and territories offer special health accommodation in some circumstances.
901
The government said a further 42 people had died in England within 28 days of testing positive for Covid.
902
Despite record Covid infection figures over the holiday period, evidence that the rate of increase in cases may be slowing has prompted speculation that London, at least, may be close to reaching “peak Omicron”.
903
The interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, has said police will strengthen protections for lawmakers after several, including La REM’s Barbara Bessot Ballot went public with death threats.
904
London, Manchester, Somerset and Buckinghamshire among the areas where councillors have warned that bin collections are being scaled back because of staff sickness.
A spokesperson for Enfield council said: “Despite very challenging circumstances, Enfield council continued to deliver an uninterrupted bin collection service throughout the festive period.
905
Movements out of the care home should also be minimised, Javid said.
Finding agency staff over Christmas was often impossible, and hourly rates had risen as high as £75, she said.
906
“Even if Omicron, or some other variant for that matter, can potentially escape antibodies, a robust T-cell response can still be expected to offer protection and help to prevent significant illness,” he said.
907
A positive Covid case has been recorded at the Newmarch House aged care home in Sydney, where 19 people died during an outbreak in 2020, amid growing concern at the strain on the sector’s workforce.
908
Holmes said reports of Covid-positive nurses returning to work “shows the level of desperation we’ve got into our health system”.
909
We distributed more than 2m lateral flow tests on Christmas Eve to support a number of community pharmacies that remained open over Christmas bank holiday and where stock was available.
910
Zahawi said supply had been increased to 300m a month and delivery capacity trebled to 900,000 a day.
He told Sky News: “The priority is to keep schools open.
911
The data from NHS Digital for 2020-21 showed that more than 5,600 people attended hospital after coming into contact with a powered hand-tool, and more than 2,700 were admitted after an accident with a non-powered hand-tool such as a hammer or a saw.
912
“No way will the health system cope,” said the senior specialist.
At the current rate “every single bed will only be for Covid patients … it doesn’t matter
913
“It took me ages to believe it was Covid,” Moore said.
Alex, who is vaccinated, is not just worried about dying from Covid, but after-effects like long Covid that will make their circumstances worse.
914
Foley said he believed the distribution of the tests will be discussed at the national cabinet meeting on Wednesday.
“Significant amounts of rapid antigen tests are making their way to Australia.”
915
Gerrard said the rapid spread of the Omicron variant was likely to continue and peak at “very large numbers” in late January or early February.
916
His case triggered outrage in New Zealand, which has frequently been praised for its pandemic response and which only recently lifted lockdown restrictions on Auckland, its largest city, after a Delta outbreak.
917
Last Thursday, national cabinet agreed to change the testing regime for close and casual contacts, switching to a reliance on rapid antigen tests as the country’s PCR testing centres became overwhelmed by demand.
918
Millions of people queued at about 3,000 vaccination centres, and on 18 December NHS England administered a record 830,000 jabs in a single day.
919
“More importantly, the delays in testing that are changing day to day make it harder to understand the dynamics,” he added.
“But any rise in cases in older people is a concern.”
920
“Without it you’re flying blind.
” So as the focus of the pandemic shifts so that case numbers are no longer the focus of government, is it still relevant?
921
“Testing remains voluntary but is strongly encouraged,” guidance from the Department for Education states, adding that secondary schools should also retain capacity to carry out asymptomatic testing on-site for pupils who are unable to test themselves at home.
922
Britain’s economy is beginning 2022 on the back foot as record numbers of coronavirus infections and tougher restrictions driven by the Omicron variant cloud the outlook for growth.
923
Or we can harness the power of active government – in partnership with unions and employers – to create a fairer and more resilient economy.
924
Some of the farm animals have already been sold.
However, since then, numbers have fallen to an average of 20,000 a year since 2014, the council said.
925
At a No 10 briefing in March 2020, cabinet minister Michael Gove warned the virus did not discriminate.
They signify a failure of public health policy,” he states.
926
“We will have more to say in the next few days about how we will distribute rapid antigen tests for those who are eligible to use that as a way of ensuring they remain Covid-safe,” she said.
927
A lack of testing equipment is also adding to staffing problems across public services.
“Face coverings are already advised in communal areas for pupils in year 7 and above.
928
He said the booster vaccination campaign was “significantly more resource-intensive”, and staff absences meant the NHS was “beyond full stretch”.
929
If other markets continue to ease Covid-related controls on movement while China remains shuttered, they may be forced to look elsewhere for trade partners..
930
Meanwhile in Scotland, despite the cancellation of large-scale Hogmanay events and being urged by the first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, to “stay at home as much as possible”
931
“We need to better understand how infectious individuals are likely to be at different times and to know when infectivity drops off,” she said.
932
Reports have suggested that the government’s current work-from-home guidance in England may remain in place for most of January in a bid to slow the spread of the new variant.
933
Talley said the policy change was a means to “urgently deal with a major staffing matter which doesn’t seem to be fillable any other way”.
934
“Whilst we are trying our best to work around this, we are beginning to run out of options to maintain safe nursing staffing levels,” the email said, according to the ABC.
935
Pre-Covid, telehealth was used in a limited way for people living in rural and remote areas to access specialists via video conferencing facilities at health centres.
936
The mainstream media sometimes fuelled the activity by emphasising worst-case scenarios, some respondents said, or legitimised abuse from social media trolls by launching their own attacks on advisers.
937
Indeed, (someone calling himself) Mr Roberts (who sent this) is a regular offender.
The spelling really is shocking.
But isn’t all bad.
There are some people out there who might need help, some rude and threatening types who really need to look at themselves, some confused souls who need advice, and some magical, whimsical sorts who just need to carry on doing what they do.
938
Chi Onwurah, the shadow science minister, said the attacks were “wholly unacceptable” and the government’s much-delayed online safety bill was desperately needed to counter misinformation.
939
Thursday’s data had 332 recorded deaths, a steep rise from 57 on Wednesday, explained in part by NHS England not reporting hospital deaths since 24 December.
940
Dr June Raine, the MHRA’s chief executive, said: “We now have a further antiviral medicine for the treatment of Covid-19 that can be taken by mouth rather than administered intravenously.
941
“We fix our energy tariffs for up to five years, and every time we renew a deal it seems to double.
“Energy companies are not interested in helping at all.
942
Germany’s leading coronavirus expert has expressed optimism that his country could expect a “relatively normal” winter in 2022-23 as Europe prepared to ring in the new year in muted fashion, with many countries limiting celebrations.
943
The latest figures came as the UK Health Security Agency released an updated analysis on the risks posed by Omicron and vaccine effectiveness against the variant.
944
“There was no silencing of the WHO; there was no silencing of the investigation team that went to Wuhan,” he said.
They’re not forthcoming with information.
945
Manchester University hospitals NHS trust had the most all-cause absences (2,407), followed by Sheffield teaching hospitals (2,093) and Nottingham University hospitals (1,982).
946
In recent weeks, rail firms across Britain have cancelled trains at short notice owing to staff who are self-isolating or are unwell.
947
The rapid spread of the new variant means the prime minister may have to introduce “tighter restrictions, at real speed” to reduce the number of people falling ill with Covid.
948
“However, cases of Omicron are rising rapidly …
On Friday, the health secretary, Sajid Javid, welcomed news the booster had been offered to all adults in England.
949
Kath’s plans have been unaffected by the rise in Omicron cases in England.
I was aware for some time that it was likely I’d have to fill in.”
950
Leaders of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy, established in 1972, condemned the actions that led to Thursday’s fire.
The protests were widely condemned by political leaders.
951
Foley said Victoria had taken “urgent measures” to buy 34m kits, which are to be delivered “in coming days and weeks”.
“Free testing is a critical part of that.
952
The rapid antigen test requirement has been removed.”
“In an ideal world everyone coming from New South Wales would get tested before they travel.”
953
Still, given the highly contagious nature of the Omicron Covid strain, Lydeamore said he was “pretty sure [Victoria] will end up in exactly the same place in a few weeks time” as NSW.
954
While vaccination rates across Australia are some of the highest in the world, Indigenous leaders fear there are still pockets where rates are lagging.
955
The AHPPC warned that previous testing rules were “placing considerable pressure on available laboratory resources”.
Allow Facebook content?
956
“We can now confirm that the six close contacts who attended the Hidden Lakes festival have all tested negative for Covid-19.
957
“We have massive orders in for rapid antigen tests for Western Australia,” the WA premier, Mark McGowan, said on Wednesday.
Part of the issue has been the slow pace of approvals with the TGA.
958
Official data shows that more than 8m booster doses were administered in England – a 45% increase – in the period between 12 December and 30 December.
959
Both party leaders focused on the effect the pandemic had had on the country in their messages.
I believe the best still lies ahead for Britain,” he said.
960
Confirmed daily Covid cases in the UK hit yet another high on Thursday, with 189,213 reported in the past 24 hours, while the number of people in hospital and deaths have also risen, data reveals.
961
During the technical briefing, Dr Yves Jalbert, the medical director of Quebec’s public health protection, said those employees would have to take their coffee and lunch breaks in isolated rooms.
962
A list of valid “compelling reasons” allowing travellers specifically from the UK to enter France published on 16 December includes EU citizens living in France or transiting through France to reach their home in an EU member state.
963
Omicron accounted for about 17,000 out of Germany’s almost 43,000 new confirmed cases on Thursday.
A booster campaign has so far reached 38% of the population.
964
But by 9am on Thursday, home delivery slots for lateral flow tests were unavailable on the gov.uk website.
Bell added: “I can promise you it is not a lack of tests.”
965
Sam hopes online learning will still be an option as universities embrace the new Covid normal, albeit with some improvements.
966
This is despite Scott Morrison’s claims the decision to allow “private market” operators to provide the kits was the result of concern from suppliers.
967
Though many official outdoor public events in the UK have been cancelled, such as the fireworks display in London and Scotland’s main open-air Hogmanay and New Year’s Day events, people are still expected to gather for their own smaller-scale open-air events.
968
In Victoria, the only state in the country to experience a significant outbreak of the virus in 2020, the term “donut day” had been coined to celebrate the arrival of zero new cases of the virus.
969
VBH forecast it would continue to rely on shareholders for financial support, amid continued economic uncertainty and a change in strategy, leading the firm’s auditors to express uncertainty over its ability to continue as a going concern.
970
Steves added: “The number of daily new symptomatic Covid cases are more than double what they were this time last year and we are just a day or two away from hitting over 200,000.
971
Jenny Harries, chief executive of the UK health security agency, admitted there were “some difficulties across the country both with pharmacies and with home testing requests”.
972
But Prof Nancy Baxter, head of the University of Melbourne’s school of population health, and a member of the OzSage executive, said the changes to the close contact definition would just fuel the outbreak.
973
On 31 December the goverment changed the rule on testing announced the previous day, removing the requirement for a rapid antigen test on day six of isolation.
974
Following Thursday’s national cabinet meeting, Marshall said the definition of a close contact would be narrowed to a household or intimate contact of an infected person.
975
The results are not reported to the government, so people who test themselves and self-manage their Covid-19 will not be counted in official case numbers.
We are disturbed by the repeated messaging that only symptomatic people should get [PCR] tested, when 40-45% of transmissions are asymptomatic, and even in people who develop symptoms, the peak of infectiousness in the two days before symptoms begin.
976
“The ‘let it rip’ strategy and defeatist narrative that ‘we are all going to get it’ ignores the stark lived reality of the vulnerable of our society,” the report said.
977
Jaya Dantas, a professor of international health at Curtin University, said it was still early days for the understanding of the efficacy of the vaccinations but “it appears that there might be a need for regular boosters”.
978
The French government tightened restrictions on travel from the UK on 18 December following a surge of Omicron cases in Britain.
979
In response to the new Nightingale sites, Hopson said it “must be the right ‘no regrets later’ move to make these preparations now”
980
Separate research by Yorkshire building society, which analysed Land Registry figures, showed a similar picture, with eight of the top 10 highest price rises recorded in local authority areas in the north of England or Scotland.
981
Spain reduced its Covid self-isolation period to seven days from 10, even as the number of new infections hit record highs, after businesses expressed fears the Omicron surge would leave them with mounting staff shortages.
982
They added that although a pilot had ended in the summer a counter-disinformation unit still exists and “continues to work closely with social media companies to identify and remove dangerous disinformation about vaccines”.
983
Novak Djokovic has withdrawn from the Serbian team taking part at the ATP Cup from 1 January in Sydney, throwing his participation in the Australian Open further into doubt.
984
Connor said there was also mass confusion about whether national disability insurance scheme participants could use their funding to buy rapid antigen tests.
“The DSP or jobseeker payment is just so inadequate.”
985
However hospital admissions data is not separated into those admitted with Covid or because of it.
It also gives a more accurate picture of the pressures on the health service.
986
A total of 22,972 new cases were reported for Northern Ireland on Wednesday – which included a five-day backlog over Christmas – while 5,929 cases were reported for Wales.
987
Unvaccinated travellers will need to apply for an exemption.
Update from Tasmania’s Premier on PCR tests required for travellers into the state from high-risk areas.
988
Lydeamore also warned that the overwhelmed state of testing systems meant that daily numbers reported this week are likely to be just 80% of actual infections.
989
Business groups have called on state governments to continue dismantling Covid restrictions even as case numbers soar amid staff shortages caused by the highly contagious Omicron variant.
990
“They’ve had months to understand Australia has a super-spreader event this time of year.
“If there is a circulating virus the same thing will happen next year.
991
The previous Scottish record was reached on Sunday, when 11,030 new cases were reported.
Over the past week, the number of cases had risen by 47%.
992
A lack of lateral flow tests (LFTs) in UK pharmacies is a “huge” problem, providers have warned, as Covid lateral flow tests and PCR tests are unavailable to order from the government website for the second day, not even for essential workers.
993
“Hospitality businesses have been hit hard during a key trading period – and this after missing out on the crucial Christmas and new year sales last year,” Nicholls said.
994
Earlier this week, Scotland reported its highest ever number of daily cases reported on Sunday, at 11,030.
At the same time, outdoor events were limited to 500 people.
995
In his ruling, the employment judge Mark Leach said he accepted the woman had a genuine fear but he did not believe it met the criteria for a “philosophical belief” that would be protected under section 10 of the Equality Act 2010.
996
Asked if he thought that should lead to a further cut to the self-isolation period in England, he said: “If it was supported by lateral flow data, yes.”
997
The UK Health Security Agency has said nearly 900,000 test kits are being provided each day, double the supply before 18 December.
998
Air travel in and out of the UK slumped by 71% in 2021 as the second year of the Covid-19 crisis took its toll on international flying, according to a report.
999
Officials in three states – Victoria, South Australia and NSW – have said testing capacity should be reserved for people who have symptoms or have returned a positive rapid antigen test (RAT).
1000
Moy said when governments began planning to open up, the organisation “asked and advocated for a clear plan to ensure access for RATs and clear policies for their use, for this very time which was predicted”.
1001
“It’s not unusual that Christmas is a super-spreader event.
Because authorities were no longer tracking “trees of transmission”, it was unlikely the true effect would ever be revealed.
1002
A run on rapid antigen tests in chemists and supermarkets across Australia has left governments scrambling for supplies as they seek to change the way people get tested for Covid.
1003
New Zealand has reported its first community exposure to the Omicron variant from a person arriving from the United Kingdom earlier this month.
1004
Perrottet also flagged changes to the isolation period for Covid positive people ahead of a hastily arranged national cabinet meeting on Thursday.
Queensland recorded 1,589 cases.
1005
“It’s frustrating that a few minutes down the road you can celebrate a normal New Year’s Eve but we’re not allowed that opportunity here.
1006
The disparity in Covid rules and guidance across the four nations of the UK has also led to other concerns, including that partygoers might travel across the border from Wales to England to celebrate new year.
1007
A day care facility in Oxfordshire has already had to temporarily close due to staff shortages, he said.
The annual average of cancellations is 2.9%.
1008
English businesses are going to benefit.
“People will push the boundaries and would be safer in regulated settings with safeguards in place.”
1009
Greece and France went down the Covid passport route as early as July.
The approach of encouragement is continuing, with a campaign texting everyone to “get boosted now”.
1010
, the doctor said.
“They understand they need more resources and they would expect I think governments to be working cooperatively at all levels.”
1011
Case numbers have also hit new highs in Scotland, where 8,252 cases were reported for Christmas Day, 11,030 on Boxing Day and 10,562 on Monday.
1012
He added that quiet streets over the past couple of weeks showed people had been “pretty responsible” with regard to protecting themselves from the virus.
1013
However, it is Brexit that Law fears will have a permanent impact.
Other data shows UK exporters have been losing market share.
It can’t be,” he said.
1014
She said some business owners who remained open were burning out due to long hours caused by a shortage of workers.
“That’s causing additional stress.”
1015
Hayes said the next four weeks would be the ultimate test on the health system.
“When you have 2,000 people off on a daily basis that is ultimately not sustainable,” he said.
1016
“So on all fronts, there is no logic in continuing (this).”
Been waiting 2 hours for PCR.
“Testing capacity in NSW is currently under enormous pressure …
1017
The England team’s support staff and their family members who tested positive after PCR tests yesterday are in isolation.
1018
Castex said that the government’s planned vaccine pass – which will require proof of vaccination, not just a negative test – would take effect from 15 January, if parliament approves a draft government bill.
1019
It puts England at odds with the rest of the United Kingdom in how people will be allowed to ring in the new year.
From Boxing Day, nightclubs will be closed and indoor standing events are banned.
1020
Kill said a longer-term strategy was needed, adding: “It is clear that the open, close strategy, which has had a huge impact on our industry, is not sustainable.”
1021
Hospital admissions in England were at their highest almost a year ago, on 12 January, when they reached 4,134.
The number of patients in hospital is rising too.
1022
Government sources have said there will be no delay to the start of the school term, despite surging Omicron cases, and that any additional restrictions will not include classroom closures.
Schools, however, have said high numbers of teacher absences a result of self-isolation could mean they are forced to send whole year groups home.
1023
”Petrovsky told Guardian Australia in November that publishing clinical trial results in scientific journals had “no bearing on whether a product is approved or not”.
1024
Despite the increased positivity rate, Martiniuk says NSW’s testing levels are “very good”.
There, the positive test rate is 18.7%.
1025
Donald Trump’s loss-making Scottish golf resorts claimed in excess of £3.3m in emergency support from the UK government, to help furlough staff during the Covid pandemic.
1026
However, cabinet sources said minds could change if there were compelling changes in the data.
“It was right that we didn’t rush last time given positive early data,” they said.
1027
Omicron has so far been detected in all 16 German states but has not yet got the upper hand over the Delta variant, which remains dominant but is expected to be overtaken in the coming days.
1028
Geoff Barton, the general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, told the BBC that staff absences had been at “unsustainable” levels at some schools, with up to 25% of staff off in the week leading up to the Christmas break.
1029
With another surplus of €490.8m expected in 2022, Mainz hopes to clear its remaining debt within a year.
1030
It took the total number of foiled terrorism plots in the UK in the past four years to 32.But
“There has been a growth in extreme rightwing terrorism,” he said.
1031
Anyone with even mild symptoms should avoid attending the event, Bennett said.
” New Year’s Eve events have been cancelled in several cities amid outbreaks of the Omicron variant.
1032
On Monday, authorities reported that three more people had died in NSW as 6,324 new Covid cases were recorded across the state.
Three people also died in Victoria, where there were 1,999 new infections.
1033
More than 45,000 medical volunteers have also joined efforts to curb the spread of the virus, according to the Shaanxi provincial government.
1034
Rich countries are divided over the proposal for a temporary waiver, first floated last year by India and South Africa.
1035
“The impact of this reprioritisation has been clear for all to see through regular reports of NHS services struggling to cope.
1036
Wehrle said the mild weather and lack of a lockdown had not enticed shoppers to head out as much as businesses might have hoped.
1037
The rules come into force from 6am.
Further restrictions come in from 27 December, when table service will be mandatory in pubs, cafes and restaurants.
1038
However, he added that a facility looking at vaccine innovation and trialling – the original vision for VMIC – should be maintained.
1039
Queensland has recorded 714 new cases, another daily record for the state, with seven people in hospital and none in intensive care.
1040
Prime minister Boris Johnson has yet to announce any further rules for England but indicated he will not hesitate to act after Christmas if required amid rising cases of the Omicron variant.
1041
The government and NHS England have expanded the booster programme and launched an advertising campaign urging the public to “Get boosted now”.
1042
Zahra said he expected total sales to exceed last year because people could or would not spend their money on overseas travel during the Covid pandemic.
1043
Millions have faced suffering and loss.
But God can – the gift of salvation is not just offered to some people, but to all,” the archbishop said.
1044
Tasmania recorded 33 new Covid cases, while health authorities in the Northern Territory announced 19 new cases, 10 of which were travellers from interstate.
In Victoria, 2,208 cases were detected from 83,456 tests.
1045
Sir Ian Diamond, the UK’s national statistician, told the BBC the “sobering” figures showed “really big increases” in Covid cases, with London “clearly the epicentre of the Omicron epidemic”, with numbers going up “really steeply”.
1046
“It turned around quickly to feeling quite normal again,” Miller said.
She’ll enjoy mince pies and custard, and virtual catch-ups with friends.
1047
According to the minutes of a Sage meeting held on Thursday, scientists were unclear whether an apparent fall in the growth rate in omicron infections was a genuine slowing down in the spread of the virus.
1048
Despite the soaring cases, hopes have been raised that new restrictions could be avoided after analysis showing the risk of hospitalisation is up to 70% less for people with Omicron compared with those infected with Delta, according to the first UK government study of its kind.
1049
The same was asked of care workers by 11 November.
The health thinktank found staff numbers had fallen by about 42,000 between April and October.
1050
Footfall also fell by 10% week on week in other cities.
Spending in stores is likely to be 23% lower than 2019, they said.
Retailers were not included.
1051
“For most people, an Omicron positive case will feel much more like the common cold, starting with a sore throat, runny nose and a headache.
1052
Johnson admitted that after nearly two years it was not possible to say the pandemic was receding, as the UK reported a record 120,000 new coronavirus cases on Thursday.
1053
Harries also suggested the government may consider new restrictions in England based on the impact on the workforce, not just preventing hospitalisations.
1054
“This has led to mass [closures] … as many businesses face an even more critical staff shortage and are unable to trade.”
1055
Demand for fast-turnaround PCR tests offered by private pathology providers for a fee has spiked in recent days, with some tourists unable to wait days for results before travelling.
1056
On Friday, SA recorded 688 new Covid-19 infections, with the state’s premier, Steven Marshall, revealing about 70% of them were from the Omicron variant.
Tomorrow I will have about 20 patients who are at high risk.
1057
But on Friday, under significant public pressure, associate immigration minister Phil Twyford – who initially refused Santos’ appeal – intervened.
1058
Aboriginal health services in the Northern Territory are shutting down over Christmas, prompting calls for the federal government to step in and provide local health support to communities that have been exposed to Covid.
1059
“Atagi expects that booster vaccination alone will not be sufficient to avert a surge due to Omicron,” the body said in advice published on Friday.
1060
The Covid-19 response minister, Chris Hipkins, said the reopening day would be pushed from 17 January to the end of February due to uncertainty over Covid-19’s Omicron variant.
1061
The latest official data suggests the proportion of adults experiencing high levels of anxiety has reached 38%.
That proportion fell to just 12% in the latest data.
1062
In response to the video, Shearer’s fellow Match of the Day presenter Gary Lineker wrote on Twitter: “Wrong house, wrong cause, all kinds of wrong.”
1063
Ewan Roberts of Asylum Link in Merseyside, which helps homeless asylum seekers and others with accommodation, said some of the people they work with are too frightened to access mainstream support.
1064
The UKHSA said the new variant was more transmissible than previous ones such as Delta, and could still lead to significant numbers of people needing hospital treatment over the coming weeks.
1065
The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said on Thursday that the risk of being admitted to hospital was up to 70% less for people with Omicron compared with those infected with the Delta variant.
1066
Prof Sarah Palmer, a virologist with the Westmead Institute, emphasised the importance of creating a “vaccine bubble” at gatherings, in an effort to protect people from infection. “
1067
The number of staff days lost to Covid across the NHS in England hit 124,855 last week, a 38% jump from the 90,277 of the week before, according to the latest “winter sitreps” data published by NHS England.
1068
Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, also cautioned about placing too much reliance on the new data at the final session of first minister’s questions before the Christmas recess.
1069
On Tuesday, Israel became the first country to announce it would offer a fourth dose of vaccine to people over 60 and healthcare workers, in an effort to increase protection against the Omicron variant.
1070
Meanwhile, analysts are warning that the economy is likely to contract in December even if restrictions in England remain unchanged.
1071
In an interview with the BBC World Service, Brown said a further 5 million people could die from Covid worldwide if vaccine access was not improved soon.
1072
Although it is very likely these cases are indeed Omicron, a further process has to be undertaken to confirm this.
What does the data indicate about the true level of Omicron in the UK at present?
1073
“They are therefore clearly in a position to give direct evidence about nearly all of the topics identified in the scope of this inquiry.”
1074
Perrottet also mentioned the need to address the impact interstate tourism requirements for a negative PCR test were having on spiralling Covid-19 testing queues across NSW this week – something the NSW government has labelled “tourism testing”.
1075
NSW scrapped most restrictions on 15 December – just in time to see the Omicron variant run rampant in the lead up to Christmas.
1076
But with Omicron “throwing a spanner in the works”, microbiologist Siouxsie Wiles said the government must be cautious with its border reopening plans.
1077
Both Chant and Perrottet said early data from NSW supported suggestions from overseas that Omicron may result in less severe illness than previous strains of the virus.
1078
The snap lockdown comes amid fears of growing infections nationwide after cases linked to Xi’an were detected in five other regions, including Beijing to the north and Guangdong to the south, according to state media reports.
1079
So the modelling also tells us that people wearing masks will significantly reduce the pressure on our hospitals and keep people safe.”
1080
Covid infections among five- to 11-year-olds are three times more prevalent than in the general population of England, a government-backed study has found.
1081
But Hazzard hit back at that suggestion, telling the Sydney Morning Herald that healthcare staff shortages meant boosters should primarily be provided by GPs and pharmacists.
1082
A separate, preliminary analysis of Omicron cases in Scotland pointed to an even greater reduction in the risk of hospitalisation compared with Delta.
1083
“Omicron is here already in Wales and it is now spreading quickly,” Drakeford said.
“We are facing a very serious situation in Wales.
1084
The problem is worst in parts of London, but Cambridge’s Royal Papworth hospital said more than 80% of its Covid patients requiring the most care were unjabbed.
1085
Guardian Australia analysis shows 77% of the 490 testing sites listed on the New South Wales Health website on Wednesday will either close or operate on reduced hours through the Christmas and new year period.
1086
That outbreak led to a series of similar clusters at nightclubs throughout the city.
So far the federal government has not moved to increase supply to the region.
1087
The Australian Medical Association president, Dr Omar Khorshid, labelled the proposal “unethical”.
1088
She was in bed for a few days and could not breathe,” Leighanne says.
Osman says she found it difficult to recover,
” Adedeji was a keen footballer as a young man.
1089
Boris Johnson’s cabinet held a lengthy meeting earlier on Tuesday at which it was briefed by scientific experts, but opted not to impose any new restrictions immediately.
1090
The advice opens up Covid vaccinations for children as young as five and extends the booster programme to more teenagers.
Are the vaccines safe in children?
1091
The government has to accept that if it is going to discourage people from doing things there is a financial consequence and support needs to go equally to all businesses [affected].”
1092
We’re able to see our families.”
Keegan said: “If we see large jumps in the data, large jumps in hospitalisation … then of course we’ll react.
1093
The prime minister says people need to take personal responsibility for managing their own risks rather than wait passively for instructions.
1094
A weary public is worried about its festive plans being cancelled, an outcome that would be all the more painful in light of the Christmas party scandal that has enveloped Downing Street in recent weeks.
UK has world-leading vaccination rate
1095
However, statisticians said the weaker headline GDP figure was driven by new data for visits to GP surgeries and outpatient follow-up appointments, with a sharp drop in government consumption of health services over the period.
1096
The premiers would make their own decisions about how best to promote mask usage, Morrison said, adding that some leaders “like to use mandates” and others “rely on the individual responsibility to achieve that”.
1097
However, the 100% rise in one week was 10 times the increase in outbreaks seen in care homes, where such incidents were now lower than levels recorded in November.
1098
“The logistics of the testing requirements are not working out the way we would hope so that’s absolutely an issue.
1099
Adelaide man Geoff Goodfellow, 72, says at least three generations of his family will be spending Christmas in quarantine.
“Here’s your headline: We’re not travelling,” Amos said.
1100
GPs in New South Wales have been left scrambling less than a week before Christmas after the state health department told them they will now be responsible for the management of Covid patients in the community.
1101
The Covid self-isolation period has been cut to seven days in a move that could save Christmas for thousands of people and ease mounting staff shortages.
1102
A spokesperson for the WA health department said bookings for five- to 11-year-olds would be available “soon” through state-run clinics: “WA Health has been informed by the commonwealth that the vaccines are expected in WA within the next few weeks.”
1103
However, IOPC sources said the complaint was only being assessed to decide if a full investigation is merited.
1104
However, concern isn’t limited to the NHS being overwhelmed.
The UK is in a better situation now, thanks to the vaccines, but Omicron has added an extra dimension of uncertainty.
1105
A requirement for table service only will be reintroduced for venues serving alcohol for consumption on the premises.
1106
Three people in England speak about their Christmas plans and the government’s handling of the rise of the Omicron variant.
1107
The federal department of health says rapid antigen tests are a faster way of getting a result, but don’t replace PCR tests.
1108
Instead he called for people to exercise personal responsibility.
I don’t want to be a close contact just before Christmas Day.
A lot of people are holing up at the moment.
1109
Yates said without a set of consistent rules, providers struggle.
Acsa is also part of an alliance calling for free or cheaper rapid antigen tests to screen for infections.
1110
“On the supply side, retailers have been making progress in building up stocks, which were seen as more than adequate to deal with expected demand over Christmas.
1111
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus urged people to postpone gatherings.
The regional health chief, Josep Argimon, said the measures were needed because of the arrival of Omicron.
1112
At national cabinet on Wednesday, they will be presented with expert advice recommending mask requirements be in place over the festive period in jurisdictions that have not yet tightened Covid restrictions.
1113
At a meeting on Monday with the governor of the Belgian province of Antwerp, Cathy Berx, local mayors expressed their concern about the potential spread of the Omicron variant due to border-hopping.
1114
Gunn told emergency staff he had been in Queensland for the 14 days before arriving when he had in fact spent time in NSW.
1115
Wednesday’s national cabinet meeting is scheduled to begin at midday with leaders to first receive an update from health experts about the Omicron variant before discussing the booster program interval period.
1116
Data on the hospitalisation rate for those infected with the Omicron variant would be kept under “constant review”, he said, with government sources hinting that further restrictions were likely after Christmas, possibly starting a week tomorrow.
1117
New Zealand has announced a suite of measures to strengthen its defence against the Omicron variant, including pushing back the start of its quarantine-free border reopening to the end of February.
1118
They need training in PPE and often key staff are required to isolate as close contacts of the client or staff cases.”
The public health and disability workforces were also losing staff, she said.
1119
The economy minister, Vaughan Gething, announced the new measures for both indoor and outdoor sporting events in a bid to slow the spread of the Omicron variant.
1120
Family members are said to be planning to visit her on Christmas Day.
It is not yet known which family members she will welcome on the day.
1121
Analysts said there was “growing nervousness” among consumers caused by the rapid rise in Omicron cases.
1122
The German government’s vaccination advisory board is expected to follow suit and allow for its use soon, a move that would be welcomed by health experts who are bracing for a huge and imminent wave of infections caused by the new Omicron variant.
1123
ScotRail had already cancelled hundreds of services a week earlier due to staff shortages, after tighter rules in Scotland on self-isolation after contact with people with Covid increased the number of absences.
1124
Sales at Fulham Shore’s 20 city centre restaurants fell last week, Page told BBC Radio 4, although he added that sales had risen at sites in commuter areas and on England’s south coast.
1125
Since 1 November, Australians have been able to test themselves at home for Covid.
“The health department and health advice have not embraced rapid testing,” he said.
1126
Given Omicron’s transmissibility, would 2-metre social distancing make a difference?
Whether mandatory restrictions would be as effective as they were earlier in the pandemic remains to be seen.
1127
“The new variant is not Africa’s fault,” he said.
“The $23bn breaks down to just 10p a week, to be paid by every citizen of the global north, and would be the best investment in world history,” he added.
1128
But he cautioned that its maternity unit is “one representative example” of potential closures on grounds of patient safety that the government’s decision to compel NHS staff in England to be vaccinated or risk losing their job could lead to.
1129
Queues around the block had already gathered at the Bourke Street testing site on Monday morning where waiting times were already several hours.
1130
The prime minister said the conversation would be a “good opportunity” to update each other on all the relevant public health information ahead of the Christmas break.
1131
Maybe we need to look at the overarching public health messaging, if mandates aren’t always working anyway.”
“Don’t furlough as many staff as we did pre-vaccine.”
1132
Kristian Radovanovic did not appear for his sentence as he has since travelled to Serbia with his father to care for his grandmother, the Waverley local court was told on Monday.
1133
The government has faced criticism for not prioritising Māori and Pasifika in its vaccine rollout, and for failing to adequately consult Māori over accessing hard-to-reach groups.
1134
It came after Britain reported the largest 24-hour increase in the number of new cases since the pandemic began on Friday.
1135
I couldn’t not do it,” she said.
” Luke Atkin, who works as part of the Covid positive pathways program, said isolating was difficult for many people.
1136
Last week concerns were raised about the lack of walk-in booster sites in Hull, which has a population of 260,000 and relatively low vaccination rates.
1137
Taylor, who also runs a restaurant called Adam and Eve in Northumberland, said that very few staff have been off sick with Covid.
1138
Ministers have been accused of failing to protect the most vulnerable people from rising Covid cases after it emerged that people with blood cancer now account for a higher proportion of coronavirus deaths than earlier in the pandemic.
1139
Because vaccination here has been key to New South Wales’s success.
Perrottet added that intensive care admissions were only in the 20s, and “that’s incredibly positive”.
1140
Asked on Sunday about the prospects of fresh statewide lockdowns given the new restrictions in the Netherlands, the federal health minister told reporters in Canberra the circumstances in Europe were quite different to Australia.
1141
Germany is tightening restrictions on travel from the UK in attempt to curb the spread of the Omicron variant, the country’s public health authority said on Saturday.
Under the new rules brought in due to the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, UK citizens now need a “compelling reason” to enter France, with trips for tourism or business banned.
1142
“Ministers must explain the latest scientific advice to MPs and ensure a proper debate over future Covid measures, including support to help businesses through this increasingly difficult period.”
1143
She said there had also been an increase in people using fraudulent work experience documents who had not been able to fulfil their visa requirements.
1144
Boosters are now available to anyone who has had a second dose of a Covid vaccine more than five months ago.
“That’s the time period that the clinical trials use.
1145
It said data is still limited on the severity of the strain, but added: “Given rapidly increasing case counts, it is possible that many healthcare systems may become quickly overwhelmed.”
1146
We have no economy without health.”
However, Prof Stephen Reicher, a leading government adviser, said a post-Christmas circuit breaker could be too late.
1147
How are we coping?
For now, they are planning a regular rota over Christmas, but he has little doubt that will change.
And now it’s happening again.
1148
Public health officials have emphasised that getting a booster jab makes people substantially less likely to become seriously ill if they are infected with a Covid-19 variant.
1149
Cases in Northern Ireland rose to 827, an increase of 514.
But the problem is at the moment, things are closing down anyway, because of the spread of infection.
1150
Even those who rarely sing feel emboldened.
The choir has given some concerts this year, managing a socially distanced performance of Handel’s Messiah in May.
1151
Under the new rules brought in due to the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, UK citizens now need a “compelling reason” to enter France, with trips for tourism or business banned.
1152
The Land Registry launched a digital registration service in April but this has seemingly done little to bring down waiting times.
1153
Victoria recorded 1,504 new cases on Saturday, none of which were reported to be the Omicron variant.
It brought the total number of active Omicron cases in the state to eight.
1154
NSW’s high vaccination rate is certainly providing protection.”
Negin said the most important factor in containing the outbreak would be the booster shot.
1155
In London, where Omicron cases have surged, Springboard recorded a 21.3% drop in footfall to central districts.
It has forecast sales will hit £2.75bn in what it has dubbed “panic weekend”.
1156
There were a further 93,045 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases recorded in the UK as of 9am on Friday, according to government figures, the highest daily total since the pandemic began.
1157
The Welsh government has said it had no choice but to close nightclubs to counter the Omicron “storm” after modelling suggested half of the UK’s population could become infected by the strain.
1158
Joy Morrissey MP Age: 40.
What people say about her: The Financial Times said she was a “passionate Brexiteer motivated by social injustice”.
1159
With the UK now breaking records every day for the number of reported cases, the question is not whether hospitalisations will rise, but for how long can the NHS cope?
1160
An increase in the number of people driving after disruption to fuel supplies in the two previous months also helped the sale of petrol and diesel increase 3.7%, although volumes were still 1.9% below pre-pandemic levels.
1161
The current advice is that indoor gatherings should have no more than 30 people present.
In Wales there will be a requirement from 27 December to work from home wherever possible.
1162
Despite the potential cooling of two years of house price growth, there are fears first-time buyers will continue to be priced out of the UK market.
1163
A source familiar with the vaccine rollout in NSW told Guardian Australia health authorities in the state were concerned about record transmission levels this week as well as a potential waning of protection, given that a large number of people in the state received AstraZeneca.
1164
When Nurie Salim went to the Gibbons Street clinic last week, there was a “zero minute wait”, she said.
“I’m not shaming the good people of the testing clinic.
1165
At the same time, hospital bosses are being urged to “accelerate recruitment plans”, bring forward the arrival of internationally recruited nurses, and offer staff options “to continue to contribute when they are unable to come into work, if they are able to do so”.
1166
Under the new rules, individuals arriving back in the UK have to self-isolate until they have secured a negative result.
1167
More than 8,500 GPs, community pharmacies, Aboriginal community controlled health organisations, commonwealth and state government clinics are able to offer either the Moderna or Pfizer boosters.
1168
The online hearing cut out before the matter was heard but AAP has confirmed the case was struck out.
Victoria Police confirmed one man was arrested for unrelated matters.
1169
This mandate is a blunt instrument, which will have devastating consequences for millions of patients across this country.”
1170
The return to school for pupils in Wales will be delayed by at least two days to give teachers time to plan for a possible return to remote learning.
1171
And either way the Treasury will have little choice but to introduce support for hard hit firms in the days ahead.”
1172
“At current doubling rates, by New Year’s Day Omicron will be infecting 1 million people per day.
PCR testing is a completely pointless exercise,” he said.
1173
These are the beds that will be used by people left seriously ill by Omicron.
However, no emergency department had to shut altogether.
1174
The BBC reported that schools in at least 30 local authorities in England had moved teaching online during the last week of term.
1175
But it was much bigger than expected, and shows that caution among businesses and consumers is starting to weigh on activity, particularly in the services sector.”
1176
Then a glimmer of hope on Wednesday afternoon with a phone call from the Almeida theatre.
A friend I was supposed to meet for dinner said she didn’t feel safe sitting in auditorium that wasn’t socially distanced.
I was pleased but also surprised to see the auditorium so full.
1177
Experts are urging people to hold their Christmas gatherings outside during the day and to reduce invitees, while cases continue to surge in New South Wales and Victoria.
1178
The finance minister, Christian Lindner, said the funds to cover the costs had been released “so that the vaccine campaign can continue next year with higher intensity”.
1179
“Lives again are at risk here, livelihoods are at risk and the NHS is at risk.
And the UK government has to step up and provide the financial support that businesses need.”
1180
France has banned all non-essential travel from the UK, starting on Friday night.
Right now, it looks as if a great many trips will be cancelled.
1181
This year, three of her four new grandchildren, August, Lucas and Sienna, were expected to attend while the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, their son, Archie, and daughter, Lilibet, also born this year, would remain in the US.
1182
However, he said customers were actually spending more money as they pulled back from online shopping due to concerns over shipping delays.
1183
However, the surprise decision comes amid a severe deterioration in the economic outlook with Omicron triggering a collapse in consumer confidence, leading to a wave of cancellations for hospitality businesses during the key festive trading period.
1184
The furlough scheme closed altogether in September after the level of government support was reduced from 80% to 60% over the preceding three months.
Business groups have asked for the 80% scheme to be reinstated.
1185
France had therefore “chosen to reinstate the need for an essential reason for travel from and to the UK”
France on Wednesday reported 65,713 new infections.
1186
It is becoming clearer that the variant is more infectious and more vaccine-evasive, so how worried should we be?
Should other measures be taken?
1187
The update contained $16bn of mystery spending, including decisions taken but not yet announced.
1188
According to the Office for National Statistics, 90% of higher education students have had at least one vaccine dose, and 78% have had two.
1189
Amsant also called for the government to increase the scope of practice for Aboriginal health workers and healthcare practitioners, so they can administer vaccines.
1190
Hobart makes its Ashes debut in the series finale later in January.
“We’re got protocols that flex, we’re looking at it every single day.”
1191
One government source said there was “a lot of working going on” in relation to how to support businesses hit by mass staff absences and a wave of cancellations as Omicron hits.
1192
In a previous article, experts told the Guardian that London’s figures could look worse than they were because of the capital’s highly mobile population, with many people moving home without deregistering from a GP.
1193
The London mayor accused ministers of planning to “unfairly punish Londoners” by refusing to agree longer-term financial aid for Transport for London, which relies on fare revenues that have dropped by billions of pounds during the Covid pandemic.
1194
Acting chief executive of ALS NSW/ACT, Nadine Miles, said the data reveals a failure by police to exercise discretion.
1195
The Ryanair boss, Michael O’Leary, has said the UK government’s response to the Omicron Covid variant has been shaped by “panic” and “idiots”, blaming travel restrictions for a million fewer passengers than forecast flying on his airline this month.
1196
Things are moving fast for the British economy.
The headline figure masks much steeper rises for everyday items – the cost of apples and pears is up 25% in a year.
1197
Throup said that by the end of September, 4,733 pharmacies had between them submitted 5,376 expressions of interest to deliver Covid jabs, but only 1,454 had been accepted – a 30.7% approval rate.
1198
Baldock said Currys had 15% more stock in the business than a year ago but there were “patches of restricted availability”, with it offering 100 models of large-screen television rather than the 120 it usually stocked, for example.
1199
However, the UK has shown significantly less speed in expanding its Covid vaccination programmes to children despite a successful rollout among adults, with almost 70% of the population having had two jabs.
1200
Keir Starmer has said Boris Johnson is “too weak” to lead the UK through the health crisis caused by Omicron, and the government’s reliance on Labour votes to pass new Covid measures showed the PM had lost authority with his own MPs.
1201
He said his own vote was not a vote of no confidence in the prime minister during a national emergency.
He said any further restrictions should also be voted on by MPs.
1202
” Chant attributed the rise in cases to the Omicron variant, but warned there was still not enough information to make an informed assessment of its severity.
1203
Last month, Bank officials were predicting that inflation would rise more gradually and exceed 5% by next April, when a price cap on gas bills is expected to be lifted by the energy regulator Ofgem.
1204
Whitty also told ministers to expect a “significant increase” in hospital admissions.
” The Guardian understands about 100 Tube drivers are on Covid-related absences.
1205
Royal Mail has said it is facing high levels of sickness that mean almost double the number of employees are absent compared with 2018, before Covid-19 was identified.
1206
The paper continues to describe the event as a “raucous” Christmas party thrown in Westminster during coronavirus restrictions.
1207
“We are hearing stories that some state vaccination hubs in regional and rural areas are not getting access to the booster shot in a timely manner,” Belot said.
1208
However, he said it was likely those two travellers had a poor vaccine response and this did not mean two doses of the vaccines offered zero protection against any infection from Omicron.
1209
“We’re very pleased those people on the flight that are now casual contacts can have a safe Christmas and businesses and communities have some surety,” she said.
1210
On Wednesday morning Morrison confirmed his trip to Queensland because Queensland authorities confirmed it was safe to travel.
1211
Earlier, England’s chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, had told cabinet that cases of the Omicron variant are continuing to double every two three days, and would be likely to lead to a “significant increase” in hospitalisations.
The 99 rebels on Covid certificates dwarfed the 55 who voted against tiered regional restrictions a year ago, in what had previously been the most significant backlash against Johnson’s leadership.
1212
He replied: “I would expect so, we try and keep in step with the approval process.”
Further details on the timing of this submission would be for Pfizer to provide.”
1213
According to Prof Paul Hunter at the University of East Anglia, it can take up to two weeks to return a viral sequence, meaning the figure of 4,713 Omicron cases reported by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) was already out of date.
1214
“If we have a million infections a day, even a very small proportion of those individuals requiring hospitalisation will put a significant impact on healthcare,” she told the Commons science and technology committee.
1215
They were: Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Some political leaders in southern Africa said the restrictions were unfair.
1216
However, she added that projects were focused on doing things differently and helping people move into longer-term accommodation.
1217
On PCR tests, the agency said: “Appointments for PCR tests are available, but high demand can lead to temporary reduced availability in some areas.
1218
Scottish Labour’s health spokesperson, Jackie Baillie, raised concerns about care packages being withdrawn due to staff absence.
1219
Its managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, said it was “highly unlikely” the UK would experience a return to the restrictions seen at previous stages of the crisis.
1220
While Pfizer and Moderna have developed mRNA vaccines for Covid-19, the technology has the potential to treat a variety of illnesses.
1221
Pubs and restaurants predict that Christmas cancellations made following the introduction of measures to limit the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in England will cut their festive takings by 40%.
1222
Concerns for health system Emily Shepherd from the nurses’ union says hospitals are already under strain and not in a position to cope with a large Covid outbreak.
1223
NSW health minister, Brad Hazzard, said the government would “look at all options”, but the emergence of the Omicron strain and rising case numbers wouldn’t affect the relaxing of restrictions.
1224
The prime minister, Scott Morrison, says the emergent Omicron variant will not “take us back” to more Covid-19 restrictions, and Australia is now prepared to open up and live with the virus.
1225
Mere Kepa, June 2020‘My ‘family tank’ was empty’ “I am a 73-year-old who lives alone in a townhouse.
A heart health issue surfaced unexpectedly, at this time.
1226
Even if only a very small proportion of Omicron cases require treatment in hospital, the potential for rapid spread was concerning, Veness said.
1227
The arrival of the Omicron variant also coincided with Zhejiang – a province of 65 million people – battling against its first domestic cluster outbreak this year.
1228
The CMA says it has written to 25 PCR providers, warning them to get their house in order or risk enforcement action.
However, little appears to have changed.
1229
It said on Monday that there were “no more home tests available” and advised people to “try again later” or to book a test site appointment instead.
1230
Dyson claims that the sensitive commercial nature of its work and the need to collaborate means office working is required.
1231
No 10 said about 750 troops had been mobilised to support the NHS with its vaccination programme, including medics, strategists and 50 military planning experts.
1232
Yousaf said it was “inevitable” the first minister would announce fresh restrictions to combat the rapid surge in Omicron infections in an update to the Scottish parliament on Tuesday, after briefing her cabinet that morning.
1233
What are the vaccination rates like in WA?
Statewide, more than 200,000 people still need to get their second vaccination dose to reach the 90% mark.
1234
Grant Hehir, the auditor general, found nothing that caused him to believe any problems with the accuracy of the information supplied by Defence as part of the process.
1235
WA’s economy depends on a continual stream of seasonal workers.
For businesses, the history-making border closures caused some to go bust because of a lack of staff.
1236
Moon said he respected the Australian government’s “sovereign” decision to strike the Aukus deal with the US and the UK – an arrangement that China has claimed poses a threat to regional stability, amid worsening tensions between Beijing and Canberra.
1237
As domestic border rules eased on Monday, Covid-19 infections continued to grow, with Victoria reporting 1,290 new cases and two deaths, while New South Wales recorded 536 new cases, amid increasing numbers of the Omicron variant.
1238
Those UK small businesses planning to make redundancies were, on average, considering shedding 45% of their staff over the next six months.
1239
“NSW Health knew that this was going to be a huge influx of tests when this border was going to open.
We’ve had people here in tears.
1240
The Ministry of Health said it was taking the matter seriously.
The ministry urged anyone who has had more vaccine doses than recommended to seek clinical advice.
1241
This will require an extraordinary effort.”
Hospitals will also come under more strain once Omicron leads to more people being admitted who are seriously ill.
1242
Jabs will be available on Christmas Day, though demand is expected to be low.
“This idea that kids can go to school if someone in their house has Covid is just stupid.
1243
It is not clear whether extending vaccination to primary school children would be able to happen quickly enough to affect the oncoming wave of cases, which is expected to peak early next year.
1244
It will probably lead to routine operations being cancelled once more, adding to a waiting list that is already almost 6 million long, and staff repurposed.
1245
All were vaccinated and 17 out of 21 tested positive, she said.
Omicron also seems to come on very quickly, “because the transmission time is very short”, said Spector.
1246
Hopkins said further restrictions could be needed to protect the NHS but that it would take another two weeks to know whether the UK was heading into a more optimistic scenario in which Omicron causes milder illness, or the more extreme end of projections.
1247
Theatres face a peak Christmas season with bookings down by as much as 50%, while restaurants and other attractions could see mass cancellations, as a result of the government’s new Covid restrictions.
1248
“I’m trying to ringfence Christmas for my family.
He’s very attached to them, and not being able to see them at Christmas last year was a huge deal for him.
1249
Local councils, which run children’s centre services, have raised concerns about the shortage of health visitors, many of whom were redeployed to nursing roles in the first lockdown and have not returned.
1250
Meanwhile, Victoria will no longer require hotel quarantine for fully vaccinated travellers from the nine southern African countries previously identified as of concern over Omicron – South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, Malawi, and Mozambique.
1251
What is the new timeframe?
The health minister, Greg Hunt, previously said Medicare’s vaccination records would be updated to reflect third doses.
1252
At Yorkshire Event Centre at Harrogate showground, 28-year-old Jessica Jones said her father heard on the local news that there were vaccines available for younger people.
1253
“NHS website will now let you book a booster jab if you’re over 30.
Some GPs had started offering booster vaccines to patients under 40 against official NHS guidance.
1254
Hoffman and her colleagues show people how to get help.
“We might need boosters every six months,” she said.
And for housebound people we do need wraparound support.”
1255
“However, our most pessimistic scenario suggests that we may have to endure more stringent restrictions to ensure the NHS is not overwhelmed.
1256
The Department of Health and Social Care has described the vaccination programme in England as “a phenomenal success”, with children able to be vaccinated at school or using the national booking system.
1257
The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said the move was “in order to balance the current Covid-19 risk and the need to keep people safe in line with clinical advice”.
1258
Unfortunately, the university cancelled all work parties, and the usual personal invitations haven’t materialised this year.
1259
On Friday night, NSW Health listed two new exposure sites that had been visited by confirmed Covid-19 cases likely to have the Omicron variant.
1260
The government will continue to look closely at all the emerging data and we’ll keep our measures under review as we learn more about this variant.”
1261
The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said Omicron was projected to become the dominant variant of coronavirus in the UK by mid-December, based on current trends.
1262
Prospects of a pre-Christmas rise in interest rates have rapidly diminished amid signs that Britain’s economic recovery had come close to stalling even before the onset of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19.
1263
The government has confirmed it is considering restricting visits to homes to just three named visitors over the Christmas period, saying it is the natural consequence of the uncertainty caused by the Omicron variant.
1264
Pressure on household budgets is, however, only likely to intensify early next year.
Analysts are warning that Britain’s economy is likely to head into reverse this winter.
1265
Employers are unlikely to panic in the run-up to Christmas, no matter how disappointed they are that customers have begun questioning spending decisions.
1266
The meeting noted that the federal health minister, Greg Hunt, had extended the human biosecurity emergency period under the Biosecurity Act to 17 February.
1267
The latest restriction has been put in place to mitigate the risk of a spread of the Omicron variant from Great Britain, where the number of cases has nearly doubled in one day after a further 249 cases were confirmed.
1268
Parents, carers and guardians will be able to book January appointments from late December.
There is also only limited data on the safety of additional vaccine doses in this age group.
1269
The Tweed shire council says dedicated border crossings are needed for locals, in order to prevent the border opening heaping more impost onto commuters and businesses.
1270
The Welsh health minister, Eluned Morgan, said on Tuesday that Omicron cases were expected to reach their peak by the end of January.
1271
Later, a spokesman for Michael Gove said the communities secretary is also self-isolating after coming into contact with Joyce.
1272
Those would come on top of the continuing wave of Delta infections.
While the average age in the UK is just over 40, it is less than 28 in South Africa.
1273
Bookings have been cancelled and visitor numbers have already dropped, club owners said.
Yet again nightclubs are being penalised,” he said.
1274
The agency’s weekly report said: “The somewhat younger age profile of the confirmed Omicron cases reflects the early detection of a large number of cases in events that typically attract people in these age groups.”
1275
However, fears of an economic slowdown mean the Bank of England is now less likely to intervene to dampen inflation.
“Meanwhile, independent of plan B, increased nervousness over the new variant and stricter travel restrictions are expected to cause a loss of £0.9bn in UK hospitality revenues this month, and £0.4bn inbound travel spending.”
1276
Scientists say that making working from home a first line of defence, ahead of social gatherings, is not necessarily a frivolous choice.
1277
NSW health authorities are also concerned case numbers will continue to surge due to transmission at festive season celebrations.
, Gale said.
1278
Kelly said that Australian authorities had received “very reassuring” results from the US Centre for Disease Control, after 5m doses had been administered to children in that age group in the US.
1279
The venues are listed as: nightclubs; indoor unseated venues with more than 500 people; unseated outdoor venues with more than 4,000 people; any venue with more than 10,000 people.
1280
Health authorities are concerned case numbers will continue to surge due to transmission at festive season celebrations.
1281
Nick James, professor of prostate and bladder cancer research at the ICR, said: “Clinical trials are the single best way to turn advances in science into patient benefits.
1282
The Welsh scheme is designed to try to find ways to address issues such as children falling behind with lessons and experiencing mental health issues.
1283
“I hope that in the future, rather than being isolated, this is like the flu, if you get it you go home and you manage it yourself.
1284
Not taking the public for fools.”
Johnson denied the accusation that the new rules had been hastened to distract from the crisis engulfing him.
1285
If any evidence is found as a result of that investigation, it will be passed to the Met for further consideration.”
1286
Manuel Cortes, general secretary of transport union TSSA, said: “Many more workers are going to feel the pinch as plan B kicks in.
1287
On an unspecified date also in December, a Christmas quiz was organised for No 10 staff, the BBC said, with invites emailed to everyone who worked in the building.
1288
The certificates will need to be shown via the NHS app.
Germany has more recently introduced a similar scheme for access to places such as restaurants or fitness centres.
1289
“That’s actually not fair,” she said.
A letter to Hawke from a number of 485 visa holders said those trapped abroad had already suffered enough.
1290
This fictional party was a business meeting [laughs] and it was not socially distanced.”
This week, Johnson started the session with a dramatic apology.
1291
They give further advice in favour of a return to working from home and an extension of mandatory mask wearing.
However, some top advisers at UKHSA believe even more restrictions are necessary.
1292
A press conference will most likely be held late in the afternoon, while a simultaneous statement is made in the Commons.
1293
Regarding lockdowns, Ferguson said it was difficult to rule out anything, adding that we “haven’t got a good enough handle on the threat”.
1294
He labelled the latter view “very unfortunate”.
“It’s medical gaslighting of people who are having trouble getting their adverse events recognised.”
1295
On the public service, Laming suggested there was a need to “tease out the relative risks to see whether our recommendations around encouraging or mandating vaccines might be able to be more nuanced than simply a decision that’s public service wide”.
Laming also questioned Cheng on how reliant the group had been overseas data in assessing the risks and benefits of vaccines in Australia, and asked how it would assess vaccine response to new variants, such as Omicron.
1296
If unvaccinated, Djokovic would have to arrive in Sydney by 16 December in order to complete the mandatory 14-day quarantine for unvaccinated travellers before the competition starts on 1 January.
1297
The recruitment push comes exactly a year after Margaret Keenan received the Pfizer jab in Coventry, launching the biggest NHS vaccination drive in history.
1298
A UKHSA spokesperson said: “A full investigation into the Immensa laboratory remains ongoing and we will provide an update in due course.”
1299
Egypt has already made a deal to produce Sinovac, while Senegal will produce Sinopharm, and 14 Chinese pharmaceutical companies were also involved in production or investment in Africa, Lynch says.
1300
Millions of people in England will be able to book their Covid booster vaccine on Wednesday as the NHS cuts the qualifying time from six months after a second dose to three.
1301
Talks are being held to set up a new not-for-profit consortium of education charities which could take over the running of the NTP from September 2022.
1302
Despite emerging late in the year, Omicron came in sixth as people looked up the meaning of the latest Covid-19 variant of concern.
1303
Italy British travellers must show a negative test result carried out 48 hours prior to arrival in Italy, and present proof of full vaccination.
1304
For example, liver mortality rates in England increased 43% between 2001 and 2019, to the extent that liver disease became the second leading disease causing premature death among people of working age, according to PHE.
1305
He claimed there were “serious concerns” about the sample size of clinical trials, citing an essay by a doctor of political economy with two years of statistical training who does not have expertise in epidemiology or vaccines.
1306
An official report published last week found that poor vaccine coverage was a cause of severe Covid in some black and Asian groups, despite programmes to improve underwhelming vaccine uptake.
1307
But on Tuesday the acting leader, Littleproud, said: “I condemn his comments and I think it was an error of judgment for him to go on that program.”
1308
Booster shots are being rolled out across Australia amid warnings that immunisation from the initial vaccinations wanes with time.
1309
However, 42% said we should send some vaccines to developing countries even if that slowed the rollout of the booster shot program in Australia.
1310
“It is very alarming that more than 13,000 planned operations were cancelled in the past two months alone,” said Prof Neil Mortensen, the president of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
1311
Listed companies received $1.65bn of jobkeeper in the 2020 financial year and $2.56bn in the 2021 financial year, the new Asic figures show.
1312
Glass did not criticise the border closure call, saying the department’s intention was to protect people in the face of a public health emergency.
1313
has there been absence of any specific support for the sector, but many companies have either been excluded or refused access to the general grant funding – so it’s no wonder that many of our members feel totally abandoned by the government.”
“The government must provide bespoke support for our travel sector, including a furlough scheme so that those employed in the sector don’t pay with their jobs for containing the spread of the Omicron variant.”
1314
One government source highlighted data showing that only 30-35% of PCR tests for the general population are processed at labs that look for the S-gene dropout.
1315
The groups say their experience in assisting NSW residents with fines show that a “significant” number were issued either incorrectly or unfairly.
1316
The figures come hard on the heels of forecasts from the property website Zoopla and other commentators that 2021 would be the UK’s busiest year for the housing market since 2007.
1317
Sue Robinson, chief executive of the National Franchised Dealers Association said: “The November new car market is below pre-pandemic levels.
1318
Is the amount of cover now at an acceptable level?”
There was no plan in place for patients who required an urgent review because of their deteriorating mental health.
1319
The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, said on Sunday the measures were “deeply disappointing”, adding: “The prohibition of travel is not informed by science.
1320
The Queensland border will open at 1am on Monday, 13 December.
Arrivals from hotspots must also take a second test five days after arriving.
1321
Second-dose vaccination rates in Queensland are expected to hit 80% by Friday, which coincides with the end of the local school year.
“It’s been nearly two years,” Palaszczuk said.
1322
“We believe it is discrimination, because the only difference is these countries [on the travel ban list] are on the African continent,” he told ABC Radio on Monday.
1323
“As Omicron cases in the UK are starting to rise it’s even more important that we speed up vaccine rollout, but the government’s lacklustre approach is putting children’s education at risk of further disruption,” Phillipson said.
1324
“The Omicron variant is highly transmissible, it appears to be spreading very rapidly in South Africa and the early signs are that it’s spreading pretty rapidly in the UK too,” he said.
1325
Ministers have agreed a secrecy clause in any dispute with the drugs manufacturer Pfizer over Britain’s Covid vaccine supply.
It is reportedly being sold for £22 a dose to the UK government.
1326
The first at-home treatment for Covid-19 could reportedly be offered to UK patients before Christmas an attempt to protect the most vulnerable from the Omicron variant.
Department of Health and Social Care spokesman said: “The UK has proven itself to be a world leader in identifying and rolling out effective treatments for Covid-19, including through government-backed national trials.
1327
The head of the TGA, Prof John Skerritt, said the Pfizer vaccine had been “extensively clinically tested” including a trial of 2,500 children aged five to 11.
1328
“In the end this situation is another demonstration of how underpowered our GP system has become.
In Berlin, small groups gathered to protest after a large demonstration was banned.
1329
“There is robust evidence to suggest that, in the period leading up to the EU referendum of 2016, and in its aftermath, Brexit identities conditioned trust in politics and politicians,” the report says.
1330
The Scottish and Welsh governments also confirmed that people arriving in Scotland and Wales from abroad will need to take a pre-departure Covid test.
1331
Voola helped author the centre’s Pulse of South West Sydney CALD communities report, which raises a “fractured trust” between diverse communities and authorities.
1332
Customers will still have to pay the difference between their original fare and the new flight they select (which can be for travel up until 30 June 2023).
1333
If all goes well, the doses will be rolled out from January.
The highest rate is in Canberra , where 97.9% of those aged 12 and over are now fully vaccinated.
1334
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control believes the variant could become dominant on the continent within months.
1335
The sharp rise in cases came as a new risk assessment from the UKHSA said the new variant is “transmitting rapidly and successfully”.
1336
You will also need adequate contingency funding should Covid-19 conditions require you to extend your trip, possibly indefinitely.
Multi-leg journeys
1337
Parts of the world are in the grips of a fourth Covid wave and reintroducing harsh restrictions even as vaccination rates rise.
1338
Checking vaccinations is horrible.
It’s not pleasant to ask customers, for starters.
Working in retail during the pandemic has been exhausting, to be honest.
1339
He says 95% of their patients are not fully vaccinated and there are cases where patients – and their loved ones – have been misinformed.
1340
Ministers have given GPs in England the green light to provide less care to millions of patients for the next four months so they can join the “national mission” to urgently deliver Covid booster jabs.
1341
The government said it was “prepared to respond rapidly to emerging variants of concern and intensive investigations and robust public health action are being taken to slow any spread”.
1342
He added that the government guidance was “ambiguous” and that this “doesn’t help in situations where the school and parents don’t see eye to eye”.
1343
While understanding the decision, McCracken says her own friends are still keen to see each other.
“If we’re told that you have to close to protect the NHS, that’s fine.
1344
In the past, the conservative politician had given his word that vaccination would not become mandatory, and he said “that will determine my voting behaviour”.
1345
“Government prioritised getting bounce-back loans to small businesses quickly but failed to put adequate fraud prevention measures in place,” said Gareth Davies, the NAO’s comptroller and auditor general.
1346
“The decision is a win for the rights of workers to be genuinely consulted about matters affecting them under state workplace health and safety laws,” Jordan said.
1347
Health authorities were attempting to trace if the case was acquired in NSW as the individual had not been overseas.
The majority are Indigenous Territorians.
1348
About the same time, Queensland announced its border reopening plan “to unite families” as the state reached double-dose vaccination targets.
1349
The NHS strategy unit said it was not possible to directly compare the modelling of new cases to current figures since the NHS does not publish a total figure for all PTSD referrals in England.
1350
Doctors have urged unvaccinated Black and south Asian people to get their Covid jabs after new data revealed hospitalisations and deaths are higher in those groups, despite infection rates being lower than in white people.
1351
On Wednesday, Watts warned an inquiry being held over the summer in the shadow of a looming federal election campaign meant it was questionable how much the current parliament could achieve.
1352
Clive Palmer will be allowed to give evidence in person in a Sydney courtroom during his defamation trial despite being unvaccinated against Covid.
1353
Morrison told ABC Adelaide on 26 November that Antic was “double-dose vaccinated” in an interview addressing the senator’s threat to withhold his vote unless the government did more to override state vaccination mandates.
1354
The report’s conclusions point to a number of shortcomings.
Arbuthnot added the Covid pandemic had offered the chance to “address a public that is ready to be addressed.
1355
In an effort to combat the Omicron variant, the government announced on Monday that adults aged 18-39 would be called to receive a booster jab.
1356
Freeman was reprimanded by Boris Johnson, who insisted that “people shouldn’t be cancelling things; there’s no need for that”.
1357
“My fear is the damage is already done, and this festive period will need to be written off like last Christmas, which will be devastating for many small businesses who were hoping for a strong end to 2021, after the last two years of Covid interrupted trading.”
1358
But what we don’t know yet is whether or not that will be sustained, and also whether it will result in more sustained increased hospitalisations and deaths.”
1359
” Daily new infections in Germany have broken records in recent weeks, with many hospitals operating at or over capacity.
1360
In a potential sign of consumer caution after the news of Omicron broke, seated diner numbers fell to 4% and 7% below pre-Covid levels on the first two days of this week compared to equivalent days in 2019.
1361
The Guardian queried how the list was being managed after a sample taken from the website on Tuesday showed tens of deals priced at £1 or less from companies including !!++0044 Tests and !Covid Testing Direct.com.
1362
Other theatres followed, with announcements from the National, which requires masks to be worn in all areas of its building on the South Bank in London, the Royal Opera House, the English National Opera and the Old Vic.
1363
The UK government has ordered about 100,000 doses of the drug.
Based on trial data, the drug is most effective when taken during the early stages of infection.
1364
McGowan’s announcement of the transition plan was met by a mix of support from resident West Australians and frustration from those who are trying to return home.
1365
“NSW Health’s contact tracing team has access to a variety of information to contain the spread of Covid-19 and keep the community safe.”
1366
“There is no possible reason to delay the release of the direction given that the government’s policy was announced three weeks ago.”
1367
Investments in pharma manufacturing in recent years include GSK putting £275m into three of its UK factories at Barnard Castle in northern England, Montrose in Scotland and Ware in Hertfordshire in 2016.
1368
I don’t want to … lose everything.
Even my employer is really sympathetic with the fact that I can’t go home, which is making it even harder,” she said.
1369
However, sources stressed that ministers are nervous about approving a move that could lead to claims that vulnerable patients could see any deterioration in their condition go undetected by GPs.
1370
Officials at the Department of Health and Social Care said the new contracts included access to modified vaccines if needed to combat Omicron and future variants of concern.
1371
So with Covid infections persistently high and a new variant to contend with, there is a real urgency to ensure that as many people as possible get their top-up shot.
1372
Similar to the Aids crisis, we’ve yet again revealed over the past year that the value of life depends on whether you were born and/or live in a rich nation or a developing country.”
1373
He added that travellers who were booked to stay at the group’s hotels next to Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports were cancelling their December trips because of concerns about quarantine regulations.
1374
“She died of Covid herself after looking after Covid patients, and he was left behind with their two-year-old baby.
It’s about people.”
1375
Ferguson told MPs that while some viruses did become less dangerous over time this was not always the case.
had each caused more severe disease than their predecessors
1376
Keeping the changes under constant review, and a government commitment to the removal of red-list countries as soon as it is safe to do so, will help.”
1377
At least 688 people died while homeless in England and Wales in 2020, according the latest official statistics, a slight fall attributed to the introduction of emergency accommodation for thousands of homeless people during lockdown.
1378
Mansfield said there had been no accountability, and this could not be offset by the success of the vaccine rollout.
1379
However, Dr Jeffrey Barrett, who is leading the Covid-19 genomics initiative at the Wellcome Sanger Institute, said routine surveillance appears to have picked up the first known Omicron cases in England and it is unlikely the variant has been in the UK for long.
1380
Tom Bill, the head of UK residential research at the estate agent Knight Frank, said: “Gravity-defying price growth is the result of low interest rates and tight supply, which are both things we expect to reverse next year, putting downwards pressure on prices.
1381
“Residents weren’t given a chance.
After her mother-in-law tested positive on 12 July last year, Trimbos said she was asymptomatic and doing well.
1382
Labor has chosen Ivanhoe MP Anthony Carbines and Eltham MP Vicki Ward to sit on the committee, while Lowan MP Emma Kealy and Rowville MP Kim Wells will represent the Coalition.
1383
Northern Territory Police have arrested three people who escaped from Darwin’s Howard Springs Covid-19 facility earlier this morning.
1384
Nine cases have also been identified in Scotland, with five cases in the Lanarkshire area and four in the Greater Glasgow and Clyde area, bringing the UK total to 22.
1385
But when she went to apply for the usual tourist visa, she realised she was not eligible for an exemption to the current border restrictions because she was no longer dependent on her father and was therefore not considered his “immediate family”.
1386
Albanese, who has also attempted to get national cabinet documents under FOI, told Guardian Australia the department’s decision to reject his request was “extraordinary”, warning that the prime minister’s department was “not above the law”.
1387
Sturgeon said health protection teams had established that all nine cases were linked to the private event on 20 November, adding that she “fully expected” more related cases to be identified in the coming days.
1388
Some who were not were oblivious to the new rules and cited a lack of faith in government policy.
They say it protects other people, but I don’t know if that’s another way to control.”
1389
After visiting a vaccination centre, Johnson said there needed to be a “surge” in people getting booster shots and that the army would be brought in to provide logistical support, but there would be no further change in advice “about how people should be living their lives”.
1390
They also criticised the head of the UK Health Security Agency, Jenny Harries, for saying it was important that people were “not socialising when we don’t particularly need to” to contain the spread of the new variant.
1391
“National cabinet agreed that the commonwealth and state and territory governments will continue to pursue a suppression strategy, noting the objective is to limit the rate of Omicron incursions into Australia, rather than eliminate it at the border.”
1392
Non-resident arrivals from four southern African nations have already been barred.
The other 400m are to come through other routes such as production by Chinese companies in Africa.
1393
The premier, Daniel Andrews, did not express relief at the deal, saying “we’ll wait and see what happens in the legislative council”.
1394
Victorian scientists have created Australia’s first mRNA vaccine, which could be adjusted to fight off aggressive new Covid-19 variants.
1395
The planned extension of the booster programme means another 13m under-40s will become eligible for third jabs in the coming weeks.
1396
The dictionary’s managing editor, Victoria Morgan, said: “Strollout really just shows the people’s dissatisfaction with the vaccine rollout.
1397
All hospitality venues are exempt, including pubs, restaurants, cafes and canteens, bars, restaurants and bars in hotels or members’ clubs, and shisha bars.
1398
People whose immunity is compromised by conditions such as blood cancer are already eligible for three vaccine doses, although some charities say the rollout has at times been chaotic.
1399
There could be an issue as there is a bit more of a backlash around Covid regulations than there has been in the past.
1400
The extension of the booster programme to a further 13 million adults under 40 means that in total 53 million people in the UK will eventually become eligible.
1401
You must follow local rules and guidance for positive coronavirus cases.
Portugal has reimposed restrictions, meaning that anyone who enters the country must show a negative test certificate on arrival.
1402
Scientific advisers are bracing themselves for hundreds of UK cases of the Omicron Covid variant to be confirmed in the next week or so, the Guardian has learned.
1403
A No 10 spokesperson said imposing tougher testing and quarantine rules would have a “detrimental effect on the travel industry”, and was not justified.
1404
The government must make the resources available to properly police this”.
Owen Weatherill, of the NPCC, said forces would continue to enforce Covid rules where necessary.
1405
However, the falls follow a frenzied few months in the UK property market where, according to figures from one firm, more than £500bn was spent on homes in the year to September.
1406
The influence of those figures seems to come through in the data – while trust in the countries’ scientists was the highest in the world, trust in the more abstract “science” was 1% behind western Europe, at 58% versus 59%.
1407
South Australia has reimposed some border restrictions.
Any further action taken is set to be discussed at a national cabinet in the next 48 hours.
1408
Rayner also repeated Labour’s calls for a resumption of the previous system of people needing a negative Covid test before, rather than two days after, being allowed to travel to the UK.
1409
“Some reports out of South Africa are that it’s mostly mild.
Other information we have is that hospitalisation rates are increasing.
1410
However, the arrival of Omicron has raised concerns about vaccine equity, with most of Africa having very poor vaccination rates while Australia rolls out third doses.
1411
ITAC also drew attention to a constellation of other demonstrations across the country, including in Quebec City where “the QAnon flag was observed, and the extremist group La Meute stated that approximately 100 members participated in the protest.”
1412
However, there is an ongoing debate over the level of funding for free LFTs for those with Covid symptoms.
1413
While new cases are trending down, Japan’s most recent wave of infections has taken a toll on more vulnerable people, with a record 236 deaths reported on Tuesday.
1414
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) director Rochelle Walensky said during a White House briefing that the government is contemplating a change to its mask guidance in the coming weeks.
1415
Given the fine balance, it is right that parents are free to choose whether to vaccinate their children against Covid-19, and experts have welcomed this move.
1416
Health experts recommend that women who are pregnant, are breastfeeding, are trying to get pregnant now, or might become pregnant in the future get vaccinated and stay up to date with Covid-19 jabs.
1417
While Ottawa’s erstwhile chief had taken the job with hopes of reforming police and emphasizing the importance of de-escalation, King worries that the opposite outcome is more likely once the protests are inevitably broken up.
1418
Barbara Mann, 35, of Monmouth, believes her LFTs may be detecting some other virus.
Cross-reactivity with other circulating coronaviruses could also be a possibility, Yates said.
1419
She added: “In the humanitarian space, the attention of Lego’s investment will attract other investment – highlighting the void, and creating an opportunity to make a real difference.”
1420
In an interview with the Guardian on Tuesday, Starmer also said: Labour would oppose the end of free Covid testing – though he stopped short of calling for mandatory isolation to continue in England beyond next week.
1421
“There is also evidence that unvaccinated people with long Covid who were subsequently vaccinated had, on average, reduced long Covid symptoms, or fewer long Covid symptoms than those who remained unvaccinated,” the review said.
1422
While protesters say the federal government’s enforcement actions did not come as a surprise, some have nonetheless taken defensive steps.
1423
The former UK health secretary Matt Hancock did not comply with a public sector equality duty when he appointed the Conservative peer Dido Harding as head of a new public health quango, the high court has ruled.
1424
During the interview Djokovic said he is not against vaccination in general even though he declined himself.
In the BBC interview Djokovic rejected Hawke’s reasoning.
1425
While the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) made its decision more than a week ago, Downing Street is reviewing the verdict.
1426
He disagrees with protesters now, mostly because he says the blockade is distracting attention from their key cause.
This is a loud minority.”
1427
Britain has always been a nation of pet lovers.
Prices for these dogs soared over lockdown and she had to pay £3,000. “
Rabbit sitting: £11 a day.
1428
A plethora of new, anti-lockdown and anti-vaccine groups are promoting it, including in some cases running bogus “courses” alongside training in civil disobedience techniques.
1429
In most cases contact is being made via email.
She added the scandal had “hugely disgusted many members of the public to see”.
1430
On Thursday, the American online fundraising platform claimed that Canada had “absolutely ZERO jurisdiction” over how the company managed its funds.
1431
“We believe additional information regarding evaluation of a third dose should be considered as part of our decision-making,” the agency said in a statement.
1432
Before the cap was introduced, test kits had been selling for about €10 and were not always available.
1433
Kennels are not reporting a flood of incoming puppies, but this is not necessarily a good thing, the charity Blue Cross said.
1434
Decisions were made day by day, trying to second-guess from our admissions one day whether hospitalisations would rise the next.
And money is no use without staff.
1435
Speaking on the Equals podcast hosted by Oxfam on Friday, Brown said the leaders of wealthy countries had weeks to commit to filling a $16bn funding gap announced by the World Health Organization this week for its plan to accelerate equitable access to Covid vaccines and tests.
1436
“These go against government guidelines.
He also resigned from the external advisory board of his old college, Collingwood, and ended dialogue with Durham.
1437
With the Commons about to go into recess for 10 days, Johnson’s spokesperson said on Thursday that he had not yet received an official communication from Scotland Yard.
1438
Africa is transitioning out of the pandemic phase of its Covid-19 outbreak and moving towards a situation where it will be managing the virus long term, the World Health Organization’s regional head for Africa has said.
1439
Wellington city council said it had issued about 120 tickets, and was still dishing out fines.
“Let’s see whether that works for them,” the council spokesperson said.
1440
A full report from the Cabinet Office official Sue Gray, who was asked to investigate the rule-breaking, is also expected to be released once the police work is concluded.
1441
In response, public-health officials swabbed hundreds of rodents at the pet shop and at the warehouse supplying it.
“Importation of infected hamsters was the most likely source of virus infection.”
1442
In the James Bond series, villains are known for decorating their headquarters with shark aquariums.
There is one person Putin has got close to, despite his Covid concerns.
1443
Trevinano has until 2026, so let’s see if it’s a success.
”On the bright side, the neighbouring areas would probably benefit from Trevinano’s success, added Profili.
1444
But the decision “immediately threw the whole state into an uproar”, Paterson said.
The ambiguity is an additional pandemic stress, Cori said.
1445
On the upside, many artists and cultural professionals have “seized the opportunity of the rise of niche streaming services to develop innovative projects in the digital sphere”.
1446
Swastikas, Confederate flags and QAnon symbols have all been seen at the protests.
Last week, Ottawa police said the crowdfunding had attracted “significant” support from the US.
1447
A number of initiatives intended to get back to most patients waiting no longer than the supposed 18-week maximum enshrined in the NHS constitution.
1448
While the vast majority of Canadian truckers are vaccinated, there were fears that forcing any number of truckers off the job could worsen supply chain pressures.
1449
Derriford hospital in Plymouth recently declared a level 4 alert, which means patient safety could be compromised.
“It’s horrible,” Horn said.
1450
Javid told Today it was inevitable waiting lists “will rise above 6 million over the coming months” as patients returned following the pandemic, before starting to fall.
1451
“While shorter waiting times to access treatment are welcome, the children’s commissioner’s analysis shows that far too many children are still being turned away.”
1452
Harri’s appointment is also a surprise as he has strongly criticised Johnson in recent years, including saying in 2018 that he would be “hugely divisive” as prime minister.
1453
Iran has seen a surge in cases after a brief respite following mass vaccinations.
In recent days it has reported an average of more than 30,000 new infections a day.
1454
On the subject of Johnson’s claims about employment numbers, she insisted that Johnson tells the truth “to the best of his knowledge” – based on advice given to him by his aides.
1455
The partygate debate, he said, was “diminishing the focus” from other political issues such as inflation rises and Ukraine and damaging perceptions of UK politics both at home and abroad.
1456
The country’s daily number of cases has risen to more than 100,000 in recent weeks, which officials have attributed to the highly contagious Omicron variant.
1457
His statement, on Friday, came days after an emotional moment in the Commons when he asked Johnson if he thought he was a “fool” for following Covid restrictions at his grandmother’s funeral.
1458
His private rule of thumb, he says, was that partying was acceptable if the R rate of the virus was under one.
Nonetheless, she was shaken by the process.
1459
Barrister Adam Wagner, an expert in Covid laws, said: “The legal question for the prime minister is whether he participated in the gathering.
1460
Neil Vora, an expert in outbreak response who worked on tackling Covid-19 in New York and is now at Conservation International, said: “Unfortunately, dominant voices in public health have historically neglected pandemic interventions like ending deforestation.
1461
According to ONS data, the risk of reinfection was 16 times higher when Omicron became dominant in the UKcompared with the period when Delta dominated.
1462
I did speak out early in the first lockdown against banning relatives from nursing homes and the need to redeploy staff to homes, in an editorial in the BMJ.
1463
The government suspended the normal rules on holding open competitions for public sector contracts under emergency powers designed to speed up the process during the pandemic.
1464
Social workers are warning of a rise in the number of children with mental health problems since the start of the pandemic, with official figures recording a 25% increase as successive lockdowns and school closures take a toll.
1465
Tensions in societies around the world over the current Covid situation are going to be very difficult to handle, one of Britain’s most senior scientific figures has warned.
1466
The situation in many countries had improved since then, he said, but “the knock-on effect of this disruption will be felt for years” and any respite from the pandemic must be used immediately to reduce backlogs for chronic care services
1467
In Thailand, they told Davis, all the focus was on keeping the infection numbers low and battling mortality.
Morbidity was rarely if ever addressed.
1468
It consists of two pieces, one of which can be removed to leave the mouth uncovered.
진짜로 나와버린 코스크 pic.twitter.com/p58WrYGFLe — 무슨 일이 일어나고 있나요?
1469
The team are expected to publish further findings giving a unique window into the earliest phase of the immune response, during the first hours and days after encountering the virus.
1470
In response, a new campaign aims to talk about fertility fears, including a video in Spanish from pediatrician and parent Ilan Shapiro, the chief health correspondent and medical affairs officer at AltaMed Health Services.
1471
When Covid appeared, that changed to a few trips a year.
I worry that as people move on with their lives, they’ll forget I still want to be included.
But there’s still people who try to persuade me to go the pub.
Covid itself has been a mass disabling event – think of all the people with long Covid – so I think our community will only get stronger.
1472
“There is no technical glitch,” said Aditya, a health worker from Uttar Pradesh who requested that only his first name was used owing to fear of reprisal.
Hari concluded that data was being “manipulated”.
1473
Despite the loss of revenue, Kyoto residents are divided over the eventual return of significant numbers of overseas visitors.
1474
However, in this regard, I now have to reflect,” she said.
Ohene-Darko continued: “Throughout the pandemic, vocational commitment has been tested to breaking point.
1475
Nevertheless, the researchers pointed out that people who have suffered childhood trauma were “known to have greater health risks across the life-course.
1476
Sue Gray’s investigation into lockdown parties this week revealed several events that had not previously been publicised, including a gathering on 14 January 2021 “on the departure of two No 10 private secretaries”.
1477
According to the Royal College of General Practitioners, the prevalence of flu in the community in England was about 95% lower in the winter of 2020-21 than normal.
1478
They were overwhelmed.
To be honest, I was that gone I just didn’t care,” he said.
“The conclusion I’ve come to is that this is what overwhelmed looks like,” said Roche.
1479
“If you get it wrong, especially with someone’s child, it can have spillover effects and derail other vaccine programmes.”
1480
In December 2020 she launched her own specialist company, named after Bacchus (“God of both theatre and wine”).
Sure, people are here because they’re passionate.
1481
Behind the scenes, Tory backbenchers said they thought Johnson had been in a weaker position the day before Christian Wakeford’s defection to Labour.
1482
He suggested that his former election guru, Sir Lynton Crosby, would be returning to help in an unofficial role.
“I get it and I will fix it,” he told MPs.
1483
But while 58% of hospital bosses supported compulsion, 32% did not.
The 40,000 care home staff who have quit since vaccination was made compulsory in that sector was a reminder of real-world consequences.
1484
‘The myocarditis risk is higher from vaccines than from Covid’
“The majority of reports suggest that when it arises following vaccination it is mild and self-limiting.”
1485
In a statement on Monday, the force said it had received more than 500 pages of evidence and 300 photos linked to apparent parties in Downing Street and Whitehall.
1486
One alleged event has not been previously reported, on 14 January 2021.
But she is clear that mistakes were made – and immediate remedial action is necessary.
1487
The Mirror alleged that the PM gave a speech at a leaving event for his then defence adviser, Capt Steve Higham, in the run-up to Christmas.
1488
All of the grid’s current drivers are understood to be vaccinated.
Despite the continued uncertainty due to the pandemic, F1 organisers are hopeful the 2022 calendar will not have to be amended.
1489
When there were questions about Johnson’s health in the wake of his severe bout of Covid in 2020, he treated an interviewer from the Mail on Sunday– and their photographer – to a display of press-ups.
1490
“But at the moment it’s unclear how the ongoing Met police investigation might interact with any further work on that.”
1491
As yet the Met will not say which parties are under investigation.
The clampdown came after the 2012 Leveson report following concerns about police and media relations triggered by the phone-hacking scandal.
1492
“Often times I have no idea what I’m gonna talk about until I sit down and talk to people.
“I’m not mad at Neil Young,” Rogan said, describing himself as a lifelong fan of the singer.
1493
He loved the idea of sculptures being widely visible and thinks they can better portray a message than a painting that has to remain indoors.
Now Ngwerume makes sculptures from his home studio.
1494
They can have Rogan or Young.
Calls on social media for people to cancel their Spotify subscriptions have intensified over the last week.
1495
As with other variants, an infection with BA.2 can be detected by coronavirus home tests kits, though they cannot indicate which variant is responsible, experts say.
1496
It means Portugal will have a stable government to oversee the application of EU pandemic recovery funds.
The biggest challenge will be to promote potential growth,” he said.
1497
The city conducted multiple rounds of testing for millions of residents this past week in Fengtai district, where some residential compounds were locked down.
1498
Chamberlain said the disclosures showed that “the government is burning a hole in the pocket of the taxpayer through its wastage of personal protective equipment”.
1499
He has delivered on the Covid vaccine programme, the booster programme, he’s delivered on Brexit and he will do a fantastic job winning the next election for the Conservative party.”
1500
At the height of devastation in India, the Serum Institute was producing vaccines to export to Europe whilst bodies were floating down the Ganges.”
1501
Dautel remains upbeat.
She has started to enjoy food again, 15 months later, and has been trying to describe the indescribable smells she experiences.
1502
With the BA.2 version of Omicron apparently outcompeting the original BA.1 sublineage, and nearly 5% of people in England testing positive for Covid, according to the Office for National Statistics, it’s not clear that the UK has yet emerged from the Omicron wave.
1503
The kingdom has still seen fewer than 5,000 cases overall since the disease emerged two years ago, and Bhutan had already vaccinated nearly all of its adult population by the middle of 2021.
1504
Nightingall said many people dread small talk because they do not know how to use it properly and fear getting “trapped in this circle of talking about the weather”.
1505
“It seems completely disproportionate to hold up the publication of a report that’s going to shed light on what may be a public scandal,” he said.
Instead, you’ve ended up with this absolute mess,” said Babu.
1506
“Everyone is concerned that the test result will suddenly turn out to be positive, but the reality is such that we are living with Covid.
1507
Schools have stepped in.
They are doing all they can to make up for as much time as possible, but they don’t feel the government’s got their back.”
1508
(They have been honest about the virus from the start, knowing the children would have heard their parents talking about it.)
,” she tells me.
1509
“Some of them have been experiencing their symptoms for a year after contracting Covid-19.”
“Rehabilitation strategies are really helpful,” she said.
1510
Earlier, Labour had called for the full report to be published.
The former chief whip Mark Harper had pushed for Gray’s report to be published in full.
1511
“In one sense it’s an indication of two leaders genuinely doing what they think is right during a pandemic, and in those cases it doesn’t matter what political party you belong to,” one senior NSW minister said.
1512
Its transparent medical mask is touted as an alternative to surgical masks and contains antimicrobial and anti-fogging elements.
Air purifiers
1513
He later shared a message that he said came “from someone who works for a cabinet minister.
So I suppose like thousands of others with their own stories, I’m angry about that.”
1514
However, sources familiar with the review process say that even that date could now slip, given the chaos in Westminster.
1515
Question Time’s decision to seek out vaccine refuseniks follows concern at the BBC that the show has failed to represent the views of the 10% of the adult British population who have not had a jab.
1516
The first covers Beijing’s city centre and the venues for ice competitions and the opening and closing ceremonies.
Security guards at the media centre fence.
1517
But the EU ombudsman’s investigation found that the search carried out by commission officials for conversations by text message was restricted to an internal record of documents.
1518
“This has been a long and hard pandemic but one silver lining appears to be that with people staying closer to home, they have discovered historic places nearby.”
1519
Another senior backbencher, Mark Harper, said: “The report must be published in full.
Opposition parties also raised concerns over the handling of the report’s publication.
1520
The latest data from the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) shows that with a Pfizer booster – regardless of the vaccines used for previous doses – the effectiveness against hospitalisation is about 90% shortly after receiving the jab, falling to about 75% after 10 to 14 weeks.
1521
Referring to controversial podcasts by Joe Rogan hosted by Spotify, Young said: “They can have Rogan or Young.
The comment was “incorrect”, said Fauci.
Spotify has been contacted for comment.
1522
The discrepancy could be linked to the lack of RATs available to concession card holders across the region.
1523
Has Sue Gray finished her report?
Gray expects that when her final version is delivered to Downing Street it will be published within a matter of hours.
1524
“We see a strong summer ahead, with pent-up demand that will see easyJet returning to near 2019 levels of capacity, with UK beach and leisure routes performing particularly well,” said Lundgren.
1525
“This is not only a scientific or medical concern; it is a sociological issue of devastating proportions and Spotify is responsible for allowing this activity to thrive on its platform,” the letter read.
1526
“Anti-vaxxer” immigrants have also been reported settling in other parts of Paraguay.
He said his community would welcome peaceful dialogue with Paraíso Verde.
1527
Research by the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a campaign group, showed that Mercola’s newsletters made a minimum of $1m a year from charging subscribers an annual fee of $50, with Berenson making at least $1.2m from charging people $60.
1528
The Netherlands has lifted its toughest Covid controls, Denmark is to remove all restrictions within days and France will begin easing curbs next week, as many – but not all – EU countries opt to reopen despite record infection numbers.
1529
During a prime minister’s questions so unruly that at one point the Speaker, Lindsay Hoyle, warned shouting MPs that they may be removed from the Commons, Starmer said the decision of police to launch an investigation meant the weight of evidence about the parties was now clear.
1530
However, it has offered unique conditions to investigate potential effects of strict policies to reduce pollution levels in urban areas.
1531
Ardern said on Tuesday that being subject to these kinds of incidents was part of the job.
The prime minister’s office has also been approached for comment.
1532
The former adviser wrote on his blog that he believed officials would not hand over crucial evidence to the inquiry.
1533
We didn’t get a proper funeral.
“This is wrong, even in some kind of minimalist way,” he told her.
“The sheer brazenness of it was surprising,” he said.
1534
He called on people to “defend our freedom and our democracy …” against a government which is “treating its citizens with disdain”.
Experts on Germany’s constitution have warned that the victimhood narrative expressed by many of the protesters in danger of being exploited by extremist elements.
1535
The premier, Mark McGowan, said the delay in border reopening was to give people more time to get their booster shot.
“They’re not getting that information.
1536
“This is expected to improve care for long Covid patients as well as motivate high-risk groups, such as asthmatic patients, to get vaccinated and thus prevent long Covid,” Cervia said.
1537
“Even today, only about one-third of the Bulgarian population above 60 years old have been fully vaccinated, far less than most other Council of Europe countries.”
1538
“Schools must also go beyond places of learning to rebuild children’s mental and physical health, social development and nutrition.”
1539
He was there for less than 10 minutes.”
Gray has reassured some staff they would be given a degree of protection, the Guardian understands.
1540
In a later statement, Brine said: “At the outset of the biggest vaccination programme in our history I wanted to give the vaccine minister a chance to thank a vital part of the workforce but I understand the event has caused concern and as such accept entirely Acoba’s decision.”
1541
ITV said Johnson’s party involved picnic food from M&S and took place in the Cabinet Room at No 10, after the prime minister had returned from an official visit to a school in Hertfordshire.
1542
Speaking in the House of Lords, he accused the government of “arrogance, indolence and ignorance” in its attitude to tackling fraud estimated to cost £29bn a year.
1543
In wide-ranging remarks on Monday, Tedros told members: “Covid-19 has proven that health is not just a national issue; it’s an international issue.
1544
“Given the amount of time since [the] initial insult to the olfactory system, it is likely that these olfactory problems are permanent,” they wrote.
1545
Mainland China reported 56 new Covid cases on Saturday, down from 63 a day earlier, the NHC said.
By 22 January, mainland China had confirmed 105,603 cases.
1546
Earlier this week, the United States announced plans to distribute 400m N95 masks from its national stockpile, a tacit endorsement of the higher-grade masks as countries deal with the highly infectious Omicron variant.
1547
It does not have a central judicial building, with courts set up in locations including a shopping mall, according to a UN report.
1548
The pinch for public health experts comes as staff shortages have closed schools due to illness as the Omicron variant sweeps across the country.
1549
“The leadership of the continent must invest in strengthening health systems,” Nkengasong said, in an interview with the Observer.
1550
However, every cloud has a silver lining and it’s inspired us to really emphasise the job that we do, help the community and help out the fellow citizens in our home town and really try and protect as many people as we can.”
1551
However, many believe that Gray’s report will fall short of pulling in the police to investigate the prime minister over parties at Downing Street.
1552
Hong Kong has reintroduced social restrictions and imposed other controversial measures, including ordering the surrender and destruction of more than 2,000 hamsters across the city after 11 were found to be infected at a pet shop where an employee fell ill with Covid.
1553
But the travel ban means the Missouri-based student has had to drastically rethink his plans.
“I’ve invested in studying in Japan and I feel like it is treating me very unfairly.
1554
An Irishman who refused to wear a Covid mask during a flight from Dublin to New York and exposed his rear end to a flight attendant faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted of assault, the US justice department said on Friday.
1555
Limits on the numbers of people who can gather together in households, at sporting events, weddings and funerals will also disappear, he confirmed.
1556
When it emerged that the private office of Simon Case may have had their own gathering, Johnson handed over responsibility to another senior civil servant.
1557
If they are unsatisfied, he could face a no-confidence ballot.
Asked whether the probe was independent, Johnson’s deputy official spokesman said on Friday: “Yes, it is.
1558
It is unclear how the “drive-in” vote will work, but according to reports in the Italian press, electors could either cast their votes from a booth set up in the car park, or from their car.
1559
“Throughout the pandemic there has been a feeling amongst many that there have been ‘mixed messages’ – often a result of policies and messages not matching up.”
1560
I really do not feel that No 10 needs any encouragement on this level.” Emin said Boris Johnson had told her he liked the work being in No 10, but added: “I want it taken down and this government, I will tell you what they need, they need compassion.
1561
“The government has only told us it’s OK to come back to the office because they want to be seen to be doing something,” she said.
1562
China, the notable exception, faces increasing questions over how sustainable its elimination strategy is.
This has been a central tactic to New Zealand’s Covid game plan.
1563
The NHS Confederation said the move would inevitably place renewed pressure on hospitals, while the British Medical Association said the changes planned were “not guided by the data”.
1564
Novak Djokovic is the controlling shareholder in a Danish biotech firm aiming to develop a treatment for Covid-19 that does not involve vaccination, it has emerged.
1565
Two days before her death, Horka posted on social media: “I survived …
“It wasn’t just total disinformation but also views on natural immunity and antibodies acquired through infection,” he added.
1566
Those who work in private healthcare settings will be included, the health minister, Stephen Donnelly, has said.
1567
In addition to providing counseling, Hendrickson also said it’s important that hospitals seek input from healthcare workers on how to manage the risks they are facing, such as what personal protective equipment staff should wear or how food should be handled in inpatient units.
1568
Because so many people around me that had Covid … and then they ring me up the next day and said all, you know, I had Covid, and then I have to worry about my family
1569
“I’m an offstage cover,” he says.
“You can’t look up, otherwise the reindeer’s head is going to stick up in the sky.
That’s when it started to hurt.
1570
It is understood the former aide will also be interviewed by the Gray inquiry, which is expected to report in the coming week.
He’s in real trouble.
1571
The understanding is that Downing Street – most likely with legal advice – has imposed strict messaging on how ministers discuss the subject, in the hope Johnson can face the findings of a report into the various parties without it being proved that he lied.
1572
She explained that her husband had died of cancer the previous week.
“The intention was absolutely to highlight the difference between experiences of ordinary people and the conduct of those in leadership.”
1573
But Team Johnson will know two things: that Cummings is not renowned as a reliable witness, and that he has a track record of promising evidence that never materialises.
1574
In the interview, Johnson confirmed he had been interviewed by the senior civil servant Sue Gray for her inquiry into lockdown parties.
1575
Frayne, founding partner of Public First said: “Our research team worked unbelievably hard for seven days a week – from early morning till late at night – during the height of the pandemic, helping refine messages that prevented many casualties.
1576
Mishra’s phone has been ringing with distraught families asking for refunds.
Vashisht has decided she cannot uninvite 630 guests.
“Who knows when this wave will end?
1577
He said he personally told Reynolds that the invitation broke the rules and claimed Reynolds replied: “So long as it’s socially distanced I think it’s OK, I’ll check with the PM if he’s happy for it to go ahead.”
1578
Foulkes asked the commissioners to investigate whether Mone may have breached the Lords code of conduct by failing to declare an interest in the company, and by lobbying for it to be awarded government contracts.
1579
He said their decision to move was because of the specific nature of No 10, which “unusually, is both a private residence and an office for hundreds of people.”
1580
A photo of the celebration in June 2020 showed about 20 officials drinking Moët & Chandon champagne, without wearing masks or social distancing.
1581
When I asked about a break I was told that no one else was taking breaks, but it was ‘up to me’ if I really needed to.
The patient was understanding of my error but I still haven’t forgiven myself.
It is now so busy that is normal to have to report 50-plus emergency scans in 12 hours, with constant interruptions.
Self-care is vital.
1582
“Doctors and their healthcare colleagues are running on empty,” said Dr Matthew Lee, the chief executive of the MDU.
patients’ and doctors’ health, he said.
1583
The advisory on overseas packages was issued after authorities claimed that a recent Omicron infection detected in Beijing came from an international package sent from Canada.
1584
The DfE said: “Air cleaning units are not needed in the vast majority of classrooms – only where there is poor ventilation that cannot be easily improved.
1585
The outlook for jobs globally this year has worsened markedly since last spring as new variants of the Covid-19 virus have slowed growth and restricted hiring, according to a report from the International Labour Organisation.
1586
Dystopia-core can also be seen on TikTok, where the DIY trend of draping thinly textured clothes over one another to create an angular, futuristic look has been gaining popularity.
1587
But a lowered risk of getting very ill doesn’t mean no risk, Offit said.
“This virus does things no other respiratory virus does,” Offit said.
1588
One in 10 of the hospital’s staff are off work, in line with the average across NHS England, but on the Covid ward about 30% of staff have been ill or isolating since Christmas Day.
1589
“It beggars belief that two years into the pandemic statutory sick pay is still too little to live on and 2 million workers can’t get any sick pay at all.
1590
The fruits of their collective output have so far proved to be critically acclaimed and this autumn/winter 2022 collection had the hallmarks of the same.
1591
Then he admitted he had been at the 20 May event, and he told MPs last week that in retrospect he realised he should have stopped the gathering that evening.
1592
The party that was put to the prime minister on Wednesday happened because an invitation was sent to 100 people saying ‘let’s have some socially distant drinks in the garden and bring your own booze’.
1593
Governments are not willing to address it.”
“There is no end, but by repeatedly creating a narrative that has a conclusion maybe we could give it an end.
1594
Gray’s report is expected within the next fortnight.
Dowden rejected the argument that Johnson was so compromised by the rule-breaking that he would have to resign.
1595
It has taken two years of research for the first antivirals to be approved, with drugs becoming available more than a year after the first Covid vaccines were given in the UK.
1596
She has a reputation for being fair, independent and tough-minded, but there is a growing consensus that her inquiry is no longer fit for purpose.
1597
Now they think we will lose because of his behaviour.
It is like watching one of those nature programmes where the animal is trapped and we know how it ends
1598
I recall the weather being good, as is mentioned in the Downing Street emails.
By this time, some colleagues had already lost their lives.
1599
While Bratzler hopes that the state could reach its Omicron peak in the next week, he is concerned that the decline could be slower than in other states because only 54% of the population is fully vaccinated, whereas in New York the number is 73%.
1600
We’re seeing policy changes that are trying to ease restrictions.
“From January to the end of March, bookings have gone backwards, not forward,” says Brook.
1601
Guy Opperman, the pensions minister and MP for Hexham, said Johnson should stay in his post, but was critical of the rule-breaking.
1602
” Earlier this week the government launched an advertising campaign encouraging expectant mothers to get vaccinated and boosted, after data had previously shown the vaccine to be safe in pregnancy.
1603
In the past few weeks, dozens of domestic and international flights have been suspended to control the spread of the disease.
1604
The world’s fourth most populous country grappled with a devastating second wave of infections in July, driven by the spread of the Delta variant.
1605
In a speech to the Fabian Society conference, the Labour leader accused the Conservatives of running the NHS into the ground because they are “too preoccupied defending his rule-breaking”.
1606
A growing number of Conservative MPs have called for him to go.
I’m not sure that any apology is going to put that right.
The prime minister’s position is untenable.”
1607
The company said: “The vaccine will be effective both in scale and affordability, providing sustainable access to low- and middle-income countries.”
1608
Brazil has had 22,927,203 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 620,796 according to ministry data.
1609
Kate Josephs, who is now chief executive of Sheffield city council, said she was “truly sorry” for the event on 17 December – one day before No 10 held its Christmas party.
1610
“The DfE said no child should be denied an education if they refuse to wear a mask.
“Workload is a huge problem at the moment.
1611
Until Boris Johnson.
The then prime minister Stanley Baldwin told the king to his face that the government would resign if he did not abdicate.
1612
Scientists advising the government have predicted there will be a fresh wave of Omicron cases in the early summer as people resume social activities and immunity wanes.
1613
Some suggested Djokovic had become a political pawn in the run-up to Australian election in May. “Australians are dragging him around like an old rag.
1614
Colleagues accept that he is a “campaigner, not a manager”, and that he needs better support in No 10, says one cabinet minister.
1615
The government is in dispute over millions of surgical gowns supplied by the PPE business awarded £203m contracts via the fast-track “VIP lane” after a referral by the Conservative peer Michelle Mone, it has emerged.
1616
Corriere della Sera reported that the face masks were among a batch also sent to staff at other public institutions, including schools, hospitals and the civil protection office.
1617
Johnson’s cabinet colleagues have agreed to wait until Gray’s report is published before deciding what action should be taken.
“I suspect it will bring forward the ‘when’,” said one former minister.
1618
It accuses controversial host Joe Rogan’s show of having a “concerning history of broadcasting misinformation, particularly regarding the Covid-19 pandemic”.
1619
Kampala’s suburbs are littered with ghost structures that were once schools.
At Chegere primary school in the northern Apac district, just one pupil appeared on the first day.
1620
Carefully laid plans for his funeral, which had been revised over many years, were abandoned owing to the pandemic, with public elements unable to take place.
1621
About 30 people attended the events in total, witnesses told the paper, which later combined in the No 10 garden.
1622
The report said the richest 1% owned more wealth than the poorest 90% in the region.
The pandemic has exacerbated this, said Oxfam.
The wealth gap is set to grow.
1623
“Although about 3.3 million people in the country rely on humanitarian aid, the frequent occurrence of violence is in many cases a barrier to accessing urgently needed assistance,” said the report.
1624
“These camps have a Christian focus and include worship services.
Music festivals have been targeted, while a church gets to put on a music festival.”
1625
At the time, England was in stage two of the government’s gradual relaxation from lockdown.
The other leaving event was for one of Johnson’s personal photographers, the paper said.
1626
It remains unclear whether Simon Case, the cabinet secretary, will have any role in the current inquiry into drinks parties.
1627
“I don’t accept that he’s in the wrong,” Dorries told Sky News.
In theory, Gray could recommend that Johnson is investigated under the ministerial code.
1628
But the surgical mask – which was just a normal, disposable kind – made the wearer look even better.
“The pandemic has changed our psychology in how we perceive the wearers of masks.
1629
He is the great illusionist of British politics.”
Johnson’s “remorseful confessions” and “submissive contrition” would do little to change things, the paper said.
1630
Johnson’s spokesman said: “The PM is following guidance to daily tests and limit contact with others.
“In line with the guidance, he’s reducing contact.
Saying the No 10 garden was at the time routinely used as “an extension of the office”, Johnson argued that he had believed the event was a work gathering, and that the event “could be said, technically, to fall within the guidance”.
1631
And the doors have opened – that was the authorisation by the MHRA.
On the vaccine rollout, BBC News channel, December 2020
This is a complex product.
.
1632
Although not all 30 other Tory MSPs have yet publicly lined up behind Ross’s banner, at least 26 have.
This Scottish Tory revolt was undoubtedly coordinated.
1633
Some MPs had suggested Johnson was unrepentant when talking to colleagues after he apologised to the House of Commons.
1634
It was previously known that child immunisation programmes globally have been disrupted since the onset of the pandemic owing to barriers in accessing or administering vaccines.
1635
The court in the eastern province of Alicante ruled late on Tuesday that the region of Valencia failed to protect the health of its doctors during the first three months of the pandemic.
1636
Of 18 different articles about the story on the website of the tabloid Informer on Wednesday, none questioned the player’s version of events.
1637
While his current job as education secretary is Zahawi’s first department-leading cabinet role, his prominence and popularity shot up during his year-long stint as minister for vaccines, overseeing probably the most successful project of the Johnson era.
1638
They were worried then about the dissonance between what the government was asking people to do, and how people in Whitehall were conducting themselves.
1639
After repeatedly ducking questions on the issue on Tuesday, the prime minister admitted he had been to the event for 25 minutes.
“I will of course come back to this house and make a statement.”
1640
“With hindsight I should have sent everyone back inside,” he said, arguing that the event “could be said, technically, to fall within the guidance” of the time.
1641
If any event took place that was in breach of the rules, the strongest disciplinary action must be taken, and I will continue to follow any revelations on this closely.”
1642
However, some research indicates that dogs may be more sensitive to the virus than PCR tests, identifying infected individuals even before they have amassed sufficient viral load to register on a test.
1643
She added that the Metropolitan police “could and should” investigate the event.
The Met have said they are in discussions with the Cabinet Office about the claims.
1644
According to the WHO, 331 candidate vaccines are being worked on around the world.
The vaccine could be ready to distribute by June, Bourla added in an interview with CNBC.
1645
“It is no longer a question of if the PM will go, it is when,” the MP said.
It has been claimed that Reynolds attended another alcohol-fuelled gathering for No 10 staff.
1646
9 weeks away from home.
I wept.
I didn’t see him at all in the 37 days between the 2 photos because I followed the rules set out by our Prime Minister.
1647
In a deal that expired last week, the Biden administration had two grocery giants commit to selling test kits “at cost” for $14.
1648
Ventilation, though still worthwhile, is likely to have a lesser impact.
Improved ventilation will also help – particularly if this is close to the source.”
1649
Recent revelations about government rule-breaking have hit Mawson hard.
Mike adds: “Her mental health has not recovered.”
“We’ve all had to make sacrifices.
1650
One admirer of Gray’s work said she would not stand for delays or attempts to influence her inquiry.
She was given a higher profile role in Whitehall under David Cameron.
1651
From there, she deteriorated quickly.
On Friday 17 December the family called an ambulance but her condition was not considered serious enough at that point.
1652
However, he said Omicron’s greater transmissibility meant authorities should prepare for a mix of online learning and in-class attendance.
1653
Ellis apologised to MPs “for the upset that these allegations have caused”.
But Rayner insisted: “The public have drawn their own conclusions.
1654
Saadia Zahidi, the WEF managing director, said: “Health and economic disruptions are compounding social cleavages.
We are not out of the woods yet,” he said.
1655
1 December – House of Commons After the Mirror’s first story broke about Christmas parties in Downing Street: “What I can tell the right hon and learned gentleman is that all guidance was followed completely in No 10.”
1656
In Hong Kong, where a relatively small number of Omicron cases have also been detected, authorities have reportedly planned to ban all international transit passengers coming from about 150 places.
1657
“I am concerned that Baroness Mone has not registered her interest in PPE Medpro and also that her action appears to bring the house into disrepute,” he wrote.
1658
The police are now investigating.
Cummings revealed the existence of the 20 May party in a blog on Friday.
This is now incredibly close to the PM.
1659
After the news of the 2020 Christmas party story broke six weeks ago, Johnson himself said he had not attended and that he had been assured by aides the party did not take place.
1660
Their modelling suggests a similar risk of being infectious – about 5% – if people end isolation after two negative tests on days six and seven.
1661
Djokovic, a long-time vocal opponent of mandatory vaccination, told border officials he was unvaccinated and had Covid-19 twice, with the more recent positive test dated 16 December, according to a transcript of his interview with customs officials.
Both before and since the Brexit referendum, however, Farage has consistently sung the praises of Australia’s tough immigration system, arguing that being able to emulate it was one of the main advantages for the UK of leaving the EU.
1662
Since the pandemic, I was out of work as the government closed our businesses,” she said.
Remote learning was available only for the privileged few during Uganda’s school closures.
1663
Having previously argued for caution around Omicron, the senior cabinet minister said the easing of restrictions would have to be guided by science, but “the sooner the better”.
1664
“It’s related to balancing the wider aspects and the importance of face-to-face learning in schools with the risk of Covid,” Kelly said.
1665
Hunt has claimed there will be 3m vaccine doses available over January for the 2.3 million children who will be eligible for a jab, but opposition leader, Anthony Albanese, said parents were anxious because they could not get appointments.
1666
After the newest allegations, of another May 2020 gathering during lockdown, Alistair Carmichael, Lib Dem MP and constitutional reform spokesperson, called for the prime minister himself to be interviewed by Gray.
1667
While Johnson’s spokesperson insisted no rules had been broken and then denied any party took place, a video filmed four days after the event was published by ITV.
1668
As the Omicron wave recedes, the use of lateral flow tests needs to be justified as part of a wider public health policy.
1669
” Others suggested that the potential for reinfection was magnified given the large number of Covid-19 cases being reported.
1670
Government sources have disputed the report and said it was too early to say what the future held for free lateral flow tests.
1671
“The cases are not going up as fast as they were and may have stabilised over the whole country, but [they are] at very high levels and they’re not going to come down rapidly,” he told Times Radio.
1672
The citywide testing, begun on Sunday, is to be completed over two days.
Mainland China had 103,619 confirmed cases as of 8 January.
1673
Abtin was transferred to hospital in the capital Tehran “but the treatment did not succeed and he died”, the semi-official ISNA news agency said on Saturday.
1674
The Australian health minister, Greg Hunt, on Sunday said the investigation of Australian Open visas had been finalised and Voracova and one official had left the country.
1675
“Mass population-based vaccination in the UK should now end.”
“It is now very clear that the NHS and our social care system do not have sufficient capacity.
1676
“It’s stressful,” he said.
Those left are contending with not only the fear of the virus, but the extra work and stress from the shortages.”
1677
As of Monday, civil servants must either be vaccinated or take regular PCR tests to be able to go to work.
1678
The hearing is set to be a spectacle itself: it will be held on Microsoft Teams and be open to the public.
Should he lose the case, there are further concerns.
1679
The vaccine is reducing transmission only for about eight weeks with Delta.
Javid answered his challenge by saying: “We take the very best advice that we can, from vaccine experts.”
1680
I do some follow-up work on exam guidance and a final check to see if we can cover any additional absences tomorrow.
We still have to juggle cover for those staff who are too ill to remote in.
1681
It is understood that data prepared for Javid this month contained estimates that about 9,000 out of 195,000 confirmatory PCR tests taken in November in England were false negatives.
1682
All-party group on fair fuel Very low key, and not officially a party faction, as it has two Labour members and one from the DUP.
1683
There are repeated echoes of Brexit, and not just because many of the MPs involved cut their factional teeth inside the ERG.
1684
Like it’s not really humane, is it, what’s going on?
In an interview with Czech media, she accused Tennis Australia of misleading players.
1685
And a Covid testing site in San Francisco’s Mission district is reportedly charging between $99 and $250 for rapid tests.
In California, that number is lower.
1686
The JCVI said the main aim of the vaccination campaign is to prevent severe disease – not prevent all infections, which would require an unsustainable level of repeated vaccinations.
1687
Documents seen by the Guardian also appear to show Barrowman was personally involved in setting up PPE Medpro’s deal with Loudwater’s director, Maurice Stimler, as well as related business matters.
1688
Once obscure diagnostic devices
But if the prevalence is one in 10 people, as it was in London last week, that person can be 99% sure they are infected.
1689
If Johnson does decide to go for a spring reshuffle coinciding with good news on a waning Covid wave, it could be accompanied by a staff shake-up.
1690
But the pandemic has seriously strained the flow of supplies with factory shutdowns and transport problems, leading the Norwegian military to ask conscripts to hand over underwear, including bras and socks.
1691
She said the lack of virtual meetings was a blow to the government’s “levelling up” agenda, making democratic participation more difficult for those with caring responsibilities and disabilities.
1692
“Because it’s a national emergency, it is my position that we can restrain” people who have not got their shots, Duterte said in a pre-recorded message on Thursday.
1693
Hopson earlier said soaring infection rates in the north of England mean that one NHS trust expects to have 30% more Covid cases next week than it had at the last peak.
1694
Soaring infection rates in the north of England mean that one NHS trust expects to have 30% more Covid cases next week than it had at the last peak, the chief executive of NHS Providers said.
1695
Macron said: “We have to tell [the unvaccinated] … you will no longer be able to go to a restaurant, you will no longer be able to go for a coffee, you will no longer be able to go the theatre, you will no longer be able to go the cinema.
Johnson’s approach for England – health policy is devolved between UK nations – is different, although he has introduced Covid passports, requiring proof of double-jabbed status or a recent negative test, for access to nightclubs and larger venues such as sports grounds.
1696
The Serbian president has accused Australia of “maltreatment” of tennis star Novak Djokovic, who was denied entry to the country after he flew into Melbourne with a medical exemption from coronavirus vaccination rules.
1697
“These rules aim to keep hospitals functioning well and schools and business activities open.
“Those difficulties would become even bigger if we made vaccination compulsory.”
1698
Almost 6.5 million people have already done so.
Normally a 5% late-payment penalty is charged on any unpaid tax that is still outstanding on 3 March.
1699
“The biggest barrier to tackling the backlog caused by the pandemic is a severe staffing crisis and our calls for improved workforce planning have thankfully been heard.
1700
Hospitals are under increasing pressure because of the Omicron variant.
“We are targeting the age groups which are most at risk of hospitalisation in order to reduce pressure on hospitals and save lives.
1701
Covid patients need to be kept in single rooms as far as possible or isolated in areas for them, which can reduce the number of beds for other patients to go into.
1702
A “vaccination doubt line” set up by doctors in the Netherlands is receiving up to 1,000 calls a day from people who are still unsure whether or not they should get jabbed against the coronavirus.
1703
He will self-isolate and his deputy, Angela Rayner, will stand in at the dispatch box instead at 3pm.
Starmer is believed to have visited nearby constituencies afterwards.
1704
India is in the midst of a Covid third wave, officials have said, as the spread of Omicron has led to a doubling of cases in recent days and curfews being imposed on cities across the country.
1705
Johnson has denied personally breaking any Covid rules and said the inquiry into the gatherings would be released “as soon as we reasonably can”.
1706
Others also criticised the proposed law.
Analysts said that while the language was crude and could prompt an extreme, possibly violent reaction from anti-vaxxers, the president’s remarks appeared to reflect a careful political calculation.
1707
Johnson did not rule out further measures to tackle Covid transmission but said the current plan was to “keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a way to live with this virus”.
1708
“Recent winters and NHS performance pre-Covid show that, after [a] decade of longest/deepest financial squeeze in NHS history, NHS has serious capacity/demand mismatch and broken workforce model,” he said.
1709
Overall, the daily count of confirmed Covid-19 patients in hospital in England has increased by 68% in the last week, according to the analysis.
1710
Israel has become the first country in the world to embark on a fourth Covid-19 vaccination campaign as part of efforts to stem rapidly rising infection rates caused by the Omicron variant.
1711
Ratshipa loved playing chess and supported Chelsea football club.
His family said his transfer to intensive care was delayed because of a shortage of beds.
1712
While the strict response had drawn some concern and complaints including about food shortages, on Tuesday Communist party authorities demanded local officials “strictly and properly” implement restrictions.
1713
In Khayelitsha, there are now settlements called Sanitiser, Quarantine and Social Distance.
Even its residents admit Franschhoek is a “bit of a bubble”.
1714
As the impact of the spread of Omicron over Christmas becomes apparent in Covid data, heads said it was inevitable that some classes and year groups would be sent home to learn remotely because schools would not have sufficient teachers or supply cover.
1715
Not all European countries have followed suit: pupils in Swedish schools are not required to wear masks.
1716
Asked about guidance for secondary school students to wear masks once schools return, which has angered some Tory MPs, Johnson said there was “an increasing body of scientific support for the idea that face masks can contain transmission”.
1717
Staff ratios have been increased – the number of patients each nurse looks after – and NHS staff are being asked to volunteer to work extra hours.
1718
He particularly praised former teachers who have agreed to fill vacancies this term, saying: “It’s this Blitz spirit that will be essential in turning the tide on Covid.”
1719
“When the economic crisis deepens beyond redemption, it is inevitable that the country will have a financial crisis too,” he said.
“The costs of cultivating paddy [rice] have gone up astronomically …
1720
The accounts state that donations were “constrained” because the organisations the charity funds have been restricted in their activities.
1721
(A March 2021 paper in the BMJ found that middle-aged women in particular face a “greater risk of debilitating long-term symptoms” after hospital treatment for Covid-19.)
1722
Even so, something about that “old acquaintance” part is stuck in my head, displacing my usual involuntary theme tune (Kung Fu Fighting – you’re welcome).
1723
This identity can take years to develop.
It’s a matter of routine, says Sharp.
It’s good stuff.
Everyone can do this, it doesn’t take expertise.
1724
That seemed to be supported by a study from South Africa showing that saliva samples subjected to PCR tests were better than nasal swabs at detecting Omicron.
1725
Barclay said: “As people return to work following the Christmas break, the high transmissibility levels of Omicron mean business and public services will face disruption in the coming weeks, particularly from higher than normal staff absence.
1726
Staff absences also mean that hospitals in England are unable to deal with some non-urgent treatments, such as physiotherapy and rehabilitation, which are vital for enabling patients to leave hospital.
1727
This problem has worsened during the pandemic, with a lot more inexperienced owners around.
Lee sought the help of a dog behaviourist and started using secure dog fields near her home.
1728
“Covid has affected young people a lot.
Keeley, a bar manager, also 26, said she feared Cardiff would be horribly quiet.
She said: “We just wanted a night out.
1729
The force is investigating offences of theft, assault, criminal damage, public nuisance and violent disorder.
1730
The team also note that shouldthe level of booster protection be higher, the number of individuals requiring hospital admissions would be lower.
1731
Portugal followed suit on Thursday, cutting its mandatory isolation period for people who test positive but are asymptomatic from 10 days to seven, after health experts urged the government to rethink amid concerns the country could become paralysed.
1732
In Spain, public festivities have been cancelled across most regions and in the biggest cities except Madrid, where a stripped-down gathering is scheduled with the crowd limited to 7,000 people compared with 18,000 in 2019.
1733
Fotieo addressed the concerns in the platform’s comments section, explaining that she received two negative PCR tests before boarding.
1734
Frydenberg has not instructed Sims to use his power to hold a formal inquiry into RAT prices.
“The main powers of the ACCC are probably exposure or recommending direct government action.
1735
An observer who wanted to remain anonymous said: “Personally I find it quite surprising that a senior minister would think it wise to sit in a tightly crowded public arena and ignore health recommendations to wear a mask for 90 minutes during this Omicron surge.
1736
“It’s also going to be make it tricky for people going back to work if you can’t get hold of them, as we have to go in to the office.”
1737
The BMA’s chair of council, Dr Chaand Nagpaul, said: “Being unable to get the tests means staff may not be legally allowed to work and, at a time of acute workforce shortages and winter pressures, this could be devastating for the care that can be given right across the NHS.”
“It has become very clear that there are nowhere nearly enough lateral flow tests for Covid-19 in England to allow the government’s policy of their indiscriminate use,” he said in article in the Guardian.
1738
Young added that the current seven-day plus testing approach adopted in the UK is sensible and provides a margin for person-to-person variability.
1739
It moved all of its 400 staff to a four-day week, with no change in salary, at the start of November.
“We firmly believe that a four-day week is the future of work for many.
1740
Amid warnings that the PCR tests used to confirm new cases of the virus have also been unavailable in many parts of the country, Javid also stressed that capacity for these has increased significantly, from 530,000 a day in November to up to 700,000 a day.
1741
The local Tory MP Ben Everitt described the protesters as “dickheads” and urged anyone with information to contact police.
1742
“Congratulations to Boris Johnson who has managed to appear on television today urging people to get tested when people are struggling to access them,” he said.
1743
Wes Streeting, the shadow health secretary, said the situation was “a total shambles”.
“They need to get a grip and provide enough tests so people can keep themselves and everyone else safe.”
1744
His assistants, Albert Stuivenberg and Steve Round, will be in charge on matchday against City.
1745
He tweeted: “Having worked with councils to restart parkrun in England this summer, it would be madness to stop it again in Wales or elsewhere.
1746
Despite facing a much smaller outbreak compared with global virus hotspots, China has not relaxed its “zero Covid” strategy, imposing stay-at-home orders in many parts of the city of Yan’an.
1747
“Never expected this outcome as I thought I did everything in my possibility to avoid it.
In Tuesday’s evening session, two former champions won through in the bottom half of the draw with Rob Cross edging Daryl Gurney and Peter Wright fighting back to beat Damon Heta.
1748
“Lawmakers are now obliged to protect us based on the clear understanding that disabled people like me are protected by the basic law – in an emergency situation this law cannot be simply levered out and that is very comforting
1749
The move proved controversial.
Amid cancellations caused in part by Omicron, Anthony Fauci said a mandate might confer stronger protection on flights, for which federal regulations require all those aged two and older to wear a mask.
1750
A pair of coaches – Phoenix’s Monty Williams and Portland’s Chauncey Billups – entered the NBA’s health and safety protocols Monday.
1751
I think this is a good solution.
“Japhet is a player who has a great sense of belonging,” Conte said.
“He has to continue to work.
1752
One model has predicted that in London, where Covid rates are highest, up to 40% of staff could be absent because of sickness.
1753
Watford, who have had three games called off so far, said they had welcomed back players who were previously isolating but added more had tested positive before their home game against West Ham United on Tuesday.
1754
Sage experts have noted that recently the growth rate of infections has slowed, but is not yet clear if that is down to a reduction in social mixing – or other factors like people choosing not to get tested.
So the fact they aren’t introducing measures communicates that there still isn’t a risk and all the headlines will be about that,” he said.
1755
This also reduces congestion in hospitals in Nigeria because babies recover more quickly,” says Oboro, adding that the cribs can be moved next to their mothers’ beds during treatment.
1756
Dr Claudia Paoloni, the president of the HCSA, said that giving staff proper PPE would help reduce the fast-growing tide of sickness absence among frontline workers who are getting Covid.
1757
United Airlines had to cancel abougt 100 flights on Sunday, a spokesperson said, adding that the company was working to rebook the affected passengers.
1758
Boris Johnson is expected to examine crucial hospital data on Monday before making any new announcement on Covid measures, but has no plans to recall his cabinet, with ministers still deeply sceptical of further legal curbs.
1759
“If you have many, many more people with a less level of severity,” Fauci told ABC’s This Week, “that might kind of neutralise the positive effect of having less severity.
Speaking to Axios, Fauci said it was “conceivable that sooner or later everybody will have been infected and/or vaccinated or boosted”.
1760
The Dutchman said he began to fell unwell after the second-round tie and later provided a positive test.
We already spoke with Rob Cross and the PDC about the current situation.
1761
Volunteer Hashminder Singh Kohli, who is Sikh, said he was happy to be working on Christmas Day and considered it part of his religion to be helping out.
1762
One of the other major UK studies gathering data during the pandemic, the React study commissioned by DHSC and carried out by Imperial College London in partnership with Ipsos Mori and Imperial College healthcare NHS trust, does not offer vouchers.
1763
I enjoy this moment, which habitually marks my shift from anticlimactic Yule sulk (25 December, 8am onwards) to acceptance of the sofa-bound enfattening that follows.
1764
It is a dispiriting prospect.
The problem is highlighted by infectious disease epidemiologist Professor Mark Woolhouse of Edinburgh University.
1765
“Evidence is showing there is no need for further restrictions,” said Tory MP Richard Drax.
And that’s the problem at the moment, we’re not doing that.
1766
Nadal, Olympic champion Belinda Bencic and Tunisian Ons Jabeur all tested positive for the virus after playing the tournament.
1767
You cannot imagine how different is playing with people.
These people go the stadiums and can contaminate [others because] in the stadiums, people don’t use masks.
“In Spain now it will be an obligation not just in [some] places but outdoors.
They go there and, because of the pandemic, play three games, whereas before it was two.
1768
“Producers are losing money hand over fist.
But we have to keep going because there is no insurance.”
Casey said no one involved in live entertainment could plan for the future.
1769
“Peru is one of eight places in the world which is considered a centre of origin for agriculture,” says Llacsa Tacuri.
Quispe can identify the variety of three-month-old maize shoots from the stalks.
1770
“I would sincerely appeal that they do not again consider closing churches and places of worship,” the archbishop told the BBC prior to midnight mass at Westminster Cathedral.
1771
Xi’an, which started a round of mass testing on Saturday, has announced no infections caused by the Omicron variant.
1772
But, in my other life I’m a wannabe astronaut, and I am completely astonished by Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter, which has made 18 successful flights on a whole other planet in 2021!
1773
Officials say the self-isolation figure could rise to 750,000 as the Omicron variant continues to drive a record daily number of new cases.
1774
“In his mind, he’s doing what he needs to do to keep us all safe,”Debs said.
So actually tomorrow will be a bit more relaxing than it usually would be for me,” he said.
1775
Officials in the north-central Chinese city of Xi’an are facing punishment for “not doing a good job” after a Covid-19 outbreak led to the lockdown of its 13 million residents.
1776
Manian also emphasized that people’s access to the antivirals will depend on their access to Covid tests, which have been in short supply in the United States.
1777
Walk-in appointments can be obtained in Eastbourne, Dewsbury and Hartlepool.
About 13.2 million are people yet to be boosted, with nine days to go before the end of the year.
1778
In 2020, some parts of the country, including London, the home counties and the east of England, were placed under tier 4 restrictions just days before Christmas that meant a “stay at home” order was in place.
1779
The health secretary, Sajid Javid, welcomed the UKHSA findings as “promising” but said cases were rising at an “extraordinary rate” and it was still “too early to determine next steps”.
1780
Several pieces of research published this week suggest that people infected with Omicron are much less likely to require hospitalisation.
1781
Having promised MPs the opportunity to vote on any restrictions, he would only be likely to get them through with the backing of Labour.
1782
29 December: Swansea Luton, Birmingham v Peterborough League One: 26 December Bolton v Morecambe, Crewe v Wigan, Portsmouth v Oxford, Sheffield Wednesday v Burton, Wimbledon v Charlton, Wycombe v Cambridge.
1783
” Commenting on the studies published on Wednesday, Hopson told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “We still don’t have conclusive data in terms of what impact Omicron could have in terms of level of hospitalisations.
1784
In a press statement, the Malawi Human Rights Commission said the directive violated the principle that medical interventions are a person’s free choice.
1785
An IOPC spokesperson told PA Media: “We can confirm that on 17 December we received a referral from the Metropolitan police service [MPS] of a complaint about an alleged party at Downing Street in December 2020.
1786
” Petersen agrees that people are “unlikely” to remain infectious, though it is not impossible.
Reinfections can occur after a previous Covid-19 infection.
1787
Recent lab data suggests the drug retains its effectiveness against Omicron.
The US government’s contract for 10 million courses of the Pfizer drug is priced at $530 per course.
1788
In September, the watchdog referred the decision on mass vaccination for 12- to 15-year-olds to the UK’s chief medical officers, saying the net health benefit even for this age group was too small.
1789
With Omicron spreading at unprecedented speed and already detected in 106 countries, Tedros said on Wednesday the existing vaccines continued to provide significant protection against severe disease.
1790
For the December draw, many Spaniards club together to buy tickets, or fractions of them.
This year’s winning number, 86148, paid out a €400,000 prize.
1791
Just because a game is slapped with the NFL seal of approval does not mean people need to pay anything close to face value for tickets to go watch at the last minute.
1792
It expects that Army medical staff will be involved, though the HSJ said that no formal request for such help had been made yet.
1793
The rollout, aimed at people who had a third shot at least four months ago, is pending approval by the health ministry but is expected to go ahead in the next few days.
1794
South Africa has reported data on Covid cases driven by the Omicron variant that appears to give added impetus to claims the country is experiencing a lower severity of disease.
1795
“I think there’s something wrong with him,” a bemused Labour MP said.
“He’s not in a rush,” said someone who worked with him in government.
1796
On Monday the league announced its intention to continue with the scheduled matches over the Christmas period, even though there were 90 confirmed coronavirus cases among players and staff last week.
1797
Edinburgh’s annual Hogmanay street party has been cancelled, while in Wales employees face £60 fines for failing to work from home as governments tightened rules to limit the spread of the Omicron variant.
1798
Hospitalisations are rising slightly but “the jury is still out” on whether the NHS could be overwhelmed next month, he added.
1799
The study was based on limited information on Omicron.
“Consideration needs to be given to providing booster vaccine doses for people who have received [the vaccine].”
1800
But even here, allies of Javid were keen to stress this is based purely on the data about Omicron, countering any notion he has been captured by the public health “blob”, not an impression likely to go down well with grassroots Tories.
1801
Johnson had promised that everybody eligible aged 18 or over “will have the chance to get their booster before the new year” – a commitment that applied to England but has been matched by Northern Ireland.
1802
Premiership rugby clubs would struggle to survive another lockdown, the Bristol director of rugby Pat Lam has warned, after tighter restrictions on sporting events in Wales and Scotland put officials on red alert.
1803
According to sources quoted by Bloomberg News, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will give the go-ahead for Pfizer and Merck to launch groundbreaking oral treatments perhaps as soon as Wednesday.
1804
Part of the Good Law Project’s judicial review effort is to seek better safety checks at private labs, arguing that the false negative results contributed to the spread of Covid in the south-west and put people in danger.
1805
Grants worth up to £6,000 will be available for hospitality and leisure firms.
The statutory sick pay rebate scheme will be reopened for all types of business.
1806
But the announcement of the ambassador’s death from Covid complications appears to dispel the rumours of serious political tensions between Iran and the Houthis, whom they have backed during Yemen’s long conflict.
1807
For El País in Spain, his “magic has vanished”.
In Germany, Der Spiegel asked how long Britain could last being governed “almost exclusively by defiant optimism”.
1808
Those losses affected Centralia’s schools too.
“There’s real historical trauma”, Anderson said, explaining the local reaction to Covid mandates.
1809
“We’re acutely aware that, as a consequence of plan B, we have seen significant behaviour change,” Barclay told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.
1810
The Raiders will not comment on the current number of cases, but will monitor and assess their situation before returning to training on 5 January.
1811
Labour dismissed Downing Street’s explanation and said it amounted to evidence of law-breaking.
Those were meetings of people at work, talking about work.”
1812
Games are still scheduled to resume that day.
The latest wave of coronavirus-related shutdowns Monday led to the closure of facilities for 10 teams.
1813
Prof Keith Neаl, а public heаlth expert аt the University of Nottinghаm, said the championship – which is expected to draw in 80,000 fans – should not have gone ahead with fans in attendance.
1814
Some drug makers have suggested the same.  
Tedros said the strain appears to have the ability to double its infections every 1.5 to three days.
1815
Kate Nicholls, the head of UKHospitality, said the industry needed notice of any restrictions that were to be placed on it next week, with financial support crucial.
1816
The rules were less specific about social gatherings at work.
No 10 staff were allowed to be at their office, as national government staff were classified as key workers.
In-person meetings should only take place if “absolutely necessary”, they said, and if that was the case, a 2-metre distance should be kept all times.
1817
On a day when it emerged that 16% of top-flight players are unvaccinated and a record 90 positive tests had been recorded among players and staff in the week up to last Sunday, a two-tier system was raised at an emergency meeting.
1818
A debate was raging over the safety of reopening schools on 1 June.
I wouldn’t be able to visit her to help her recover and we knew she wouldn’t have a chance.
1819
Johnson’s spokesman rejected the idea of a potential conflict of interest, saying Reynolds was not helping the inquiry.
1820
Speaking earlier, Dominic Raab had argued the photo simply showed people “having a drink after a busy set of work meetings”, and that other workplaces would have acted similarly.
1821
In order for her sons to be able to spend Christmas with their parents as well as visit elderly relatives, the family has to be extremely careful not to catch Covid.
1822
pic.twitter.com/3q4YfVsqvI
It’s one rule for us, and no rule for them. pic.twitter.com/E88C7hwiz3 — Armando Iannucci (@Aiannucci) December 19, 2021
1823
The decision to focus on the current vaccine, mRNA-1273, was driven in part by how quickly the variant is spreading.
It’s highly effective and extremely safe.
1824
I’m afraid I don’t agree with his analysis.
Speaking earlier on Sky News, Raab said it was impossible to rule out further Covid restrictions before Christmas.
1825
Even in a normal winter, critical bed crises are a common problem, with operations cancelled and patient care often compromised as a result.
1826
On Sunday, the UK government announced it was doubling the amount of additional funding available for the governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to tackle Covid from £430m to £860m.
1827
Ultimately, it will come down to the watching public looking at the photograph, reading the No 10 explanation, and being asked to accept that this was purely a work event.
1828
In workplaces, guidance said in-person meetings should only take place if “absolutely necessary”.
“Downing Street is the prime minister’s home as well as his workplace.
1829
The UK health secretary has criticised people who have chosen not to be vaccinated against coronavirus as they “take up hospital beds” that could be used for patients in need.
1830
Maurice Limmen, the president of the Association of Universities of Applied Sciences, said the higher education sector recognised the need for the closure of institutions but Loes Ypma, from the organisation representing childcare, said she was concerned.
1831
Throughout the epidemic, scientists have stressed the importance of moving fast when cases take off.
“The timing of such measures is crucial,” they add.
1832
The state Senate Republican caucus confirmed his death but did not say where he died.
Van Werven said the next week the senator was recovering at a Florida hospital.
1833
On Saturday, Aston Villa’s home game against Burnley was called off hours before kick-off due to an outbreak in the Villa squad.
1834
“We also found that daily lateral flow testing as an alternative to quarantine for people who had been in close contact with a known infected person enabled emergency services to keep key teams such as fire crews in work, underpinning public safety.”
1835
But scientists were already on the case – the UK Fireball Alliance’s cameras had picked up the signal and were busy estimating a landing site.
1836
The trust is currently looking after 142 Covid patients, compared with 773 during the peak of the second wave in January.
This view is endorsed by hospital staff, who have had little respite.
1837
Schools and universities will shut until 9 January, he said.
Residents only will be permitted two visitors except for Christmas and New Year’s, when four will be allowed, according to Rutte.
1838
Police officers suffered minor injuries during “scuffles” at an anti-vaccine protest in Parliament Square in Westminster.
No injuries were reported.
1839
“If a player is not vaccinated at all, he is a constant threat for all of us,” Klopp said.
Klopp worries that removing matches now could result in a backlog later in the season.
1840
South Africa Omicron was first pinpointed in South Africa, which then experienced a very rapid rise in numbers of Covid-19 cases.
1841
I’m one of those people who are ripe for change,” she says in a decorated pedestrianised shopping centre.
“When I found out [about the parties] I was fuming.
1842
The Tory MP Richard Holden told BBC Newsnight on Friday that Gray was “formidable” and described her as “not a pushover”.
1843
In a separate interview with BBC Breakfast, the Labour MP said that “if the rules are broken … in any other line of work, the police would be investigating and I don’t know why the police aren’t investigating this situation.
1844
The number of deaths in England of people with the Omicron variant has risen to seven, the UK Health Security Agency said on Saturday afternoon, from the previous figure of one.
1845
The Omicron coronavirus variant has been reported in 89 countries and the number of cases is doubling in 1.5 to three days in areas with community transmission, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said.
1846
Aston Villa’s Premier League match against Burnley has been called off less than three hours before kick-off as a result of more Covid-19 cases at Villa.
1847
And buying chocolate: “If the worst comes to the worst, and you just sit there for the whole day eating a tin of Roses, is that really such a bad thing?”
1848
It has seen the number of hospitalised patients with Covid it is treating jump by a third over the last week and is bracing itself for worse to come in the days ahead.
1849
Further data released in a second report shows Omicron is doubling every two days in England, with people more than five times as likely to be reinfected with the variant compared with Delta.
1850
26 December Bolton v Morecambe, Crewe v Wigan, Portsmouth v Oxford, Sheffield Wednesday v Burton, Wimbledon v Charlton, Wycombe v Cambridge
1851
While South Africa’s experience with Omicron has been carefully watched around the world for evidence of how infections may progress, experts say populations with larger numbers of older and more vulnerable people may experience it differently.
1852
Part of the purpose of these briefings is to encourage behaviour change in a context when most things are still open.”
1853
From mid-December, promoters also make a killing from concerts that are pricey by local standards but relatively affordable compared with shows by the same artists in Europe and the US.
1854
The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, has asked for the names of health officials who approved Covid vaccines for children, saying he planned to make their identities public despite previous death threats.
1855
Poor service from suppliers of PCR travel tests is “an issue of national significance”, and regulators are not doing enough to police hundreds of new businesses that have moved into the market, the former competition boss Andrew Tyrie has said.
1856
The Browns previously had 17 players, including 10 starters, on the Covid-19 list and are placing safety Ronnie Harrison there.
1857
The CDC said that the rate of such incidents is higher than previously estimated, both in women and men, with at least nine dead following such blood clotting incidents in the US, the CDC has noted.
1858
In a statement, the force said: “Officers will be making contact with two people who attended in relation to alleged breaches of the health protection (coronavirus restrictions) regulations.”
1859
And added to the public’s growing caution as they batten down the hatches is the impact of mass absences as Omicron rips through the population – particularly in London, though other areas are unlikely to be far behind.
1860
On Thursday the EFL detailed new regulations, which fall in line with those in the top flight, as it confirmed that fixtures in all three of its divisions had been postponed.
1861
But “supply is the main driver of vaccination rates”, Taylor says.
Experts say that good governance, mechanisms and policies are integral.
1862
Inspectors were told that other Covid-related absences were the result of “low resilience to setbacks or illness”, as well as families taking rescheduled or rearranged holidays during term-time.
1863
Then there was the photo of Johnson presiding over a third event – a Christmas quiz over Zoom – where staff crowded around desks while answering questions in teams.
1864
As the Omicron variant spreads rapidly through Britain, there must not be any sign of the government censoring or intimidating our leading scientific experts.”
1865
Earlier that evening, Matt Hancock, then health secretary, had urged people to “stay at home as much as is possible” and asked them to “please stick with the rules, keep an eye on your family and don’t take risks” during the period of good weather.
1866
“With several hundred thousand pregnant women across the world having received a vaccine, it is clear that vaccination in pregnancy is safe.
1867
On Thursday, the UK set another grim record for the Covid epidemic with 88,376 new cases reported, a 31.4% rise on the week.
1868
Authorities are hoping the high vaccination rates – 93.3% of adults are fully jabbed – will keep the stress on the health system to a minimum.
1869
Rutte’s letter did not specify how many people had attended but local media quoted the government as saying 21 invites were sent.
1870
The study cannot prove the cause of the ongoing symptoms, and stressed the need for approaches to improve the mental and physical impairments in patients.
1871
29 December: Swansea Luton, Birmingham v Peterborough League One: 26 December Bolton v Morecambe, Crewe v Wigan, Portsmouth v Oxford, Sheffield Wednesday v Burton, Wimbledon v Charlton, Wycombe v Cambridge.
1872
A Conservative party source told the Guardian that the four party staffers involved were disciplined just over a week after the event took place.
1873
“Therefore, taken together with our recent studies showing that the Omicron variant can partially escape immunity from vaccines and past infection, the overall threat from the Omicron variant is likely to be very significant.”
1874
Kate Terroni, chief inspector of adult social care at CQC, said: “Blanket approaches to visiting are unacceptable and may trigger an inspection.”
1875
Ellis Genge has dropped a bombshell by informing Leicester he will be the latest star player to leave at the end of the season, with the Tigers captain expected to return to his hometown club Bristol.
1876
Last week, the Browns were missing three key players due to coronavirus positives: tight end David Njoku, linebacker Anthony Walker Jr and punter Jamie Gillan.
1877
,” Harries said.
But Amanda Pritchard, the chief executive of NHS England, told MPs that hospitalisations could exceed the numbers seen last winter.
1878
The inquiry will be held in public.
The Scottish government has already said it will run its own inquiry.
But the group said the inquiry was being established “far too late”.
1879
Anecdotal evidence from South Africa has suggested that Omicron may cause milder disease.
But we are more prepared to fight the virus than ever.
1880
There’s lots of research showing that if you present people with strings of letters that don’t exist as words in English but could, they’ll pronounce it like the most frequent existing word that has the most similar set of letters.”
1881
Speaking in a personal capacity, Prof Robert Dingwall, a former government Covid adviser from Nottingham Trent University, told the Daily Telegraph: “The Omicron situation seems to be increasingly absurd.
1882
Amazon has remained a home to prominent anti-vaxxers and conspiracy theorists after other platforms banned them, reports show.
1883
According to reports, the members included a 34-year-old woman and four men aged between 32 and 64.
Kretschmer said “all judicial means” would be used to tackle threats.
Mayors, police chiefs and media representatives across Germany have also expressed concern over their safety after about a dozen of them received threatening letters containing pieces of raw steak, stated to be infected with Covid-19 and the deadly gas Zyklon B.
1884
Getting to sleep is difficult for Miriam because she has nightmares.
Our youngest children were not speaking to each other; they were playing in isolation.
1885
One attendee was wearing a party hat, with another in a Christmas jumper.
The Times described the event as “raucous”, saying that a door was damaged during the party.
1886
Today’s the day the Auckland border is opened up.
Harawira said the checkpoints are not about keeping Aucklanders out, but keeping Northland safe.
1887
A pill manufactured by the prominent Covid-19 vaccine provider Pfizer is highly effective in protecting against severe disease from coronavirus, the company said on Tuesday.
1888
The recruitment agency had not recommended him.
Her most high-profile professional experience was as the former chief executive of the TalkTalk group.”
1889
Johnson told his ministers there would be a “huge spike” in cases, with the UK Health Security Agency suggesting there may have been as many as 200,000 Omicron cases on Monday alone.
1890
A Whitehall source from outside the Treasury said Sunak had not opposed the measure but warned prices were likely to rise and that the cost to the exchequer should not be underestimated.
1891
The deputy prime minister and justice secretary told Times Radio he thought Christmas Day was safe to spend with family.
A source close to Raab said he had misheard the question on Sky News.
1892
After a damaging row and U-turn over the summer, five Conservative MPs voted with Labour on extending free school meals after another compelling campaign by the footballer Marcus Rashford.
1893
The measures require a return to social distancing at training grounds and limit time in treatment rooms.
Areas of the ground that do not register will be subject to more rigorous spot checks.
1894
In the study, researchers linked data on Covid certification introduced between April and September this year to vaccination uptake in six countries where certification was legally required – Denmark, Israel, Italy, France, Germany and Switzerland.
1895
But Boris Johnson refused to rule out tougher restrictions if necessary to maintain public health.
Javid suggested the target was to “offer” rather than deliver the boosters.
1896
MPs were told the new vaccination plan would involve “opening more vaccination sites, including pop-up and mobile sites that will be working seven days a week”.
1897
He said the change would come into force “once all adults have had a reasonable chance to get their booster jab”.
1898
It was also referenced in the Rugby Football Union’s subsequent review.
The second round of the Champions Cup is this weekend but a number of clubs are already dealing with outbreaks.
1899
“At the start of my placement I was working from home full-time and, while it was nice, I definitely didn’t get to make the kind of connections you need.”
He added: “We’re very keen not to ruin anybody’s Christmas.”
1900
Time for change — Alan1975 (@ruspola) December 13, 2021
Ryanair’s own behaviour during the pandemic has also come in for criticism on social media.
1901
“An immediate announcement from the government on additional measures for schools and colleges is, we believe, essential before the majority of schools and colleges close for the Christmas break.” Last year
1902
The highest number of new vaccinations reported in one day in the UK was 844,285 on 20 March – a figure that will probably need to be surpassed every day to hit the government target.
1903
Asked about deaths from the variant, he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “I don’t know of any confirmed cases at this moment.
1904
The minister added Johnson still seemed “clueless” on how to tackle Covid through the winter and there was a “genuine level of uncertainty” about whether more restrictions would follow, but insisted: “A proportionate, precautionary response is not unreasonable.
1905
Early studies also suggest that the quality of antibodies is higher following a booster.
The immune system has a second line of defence in T cells, which attack cells already infected.
1906
And some Tory MPs hope he’ll continue that streak by managing to rescue himself from plummeting poll ratings in the wake of a string of Downing Street parties in defiance of Covid laws.
1907
Tuesday’s Premier League match between Brentford and Manchester United has been placed in doubt after a number of Ralf Rangnick’s squad tested positive for Covid-19.
1908
While many Conservative MPs have supported all Covid restrictions, the number who will rebel this week is set to rise considerably.
1909
The prime minister’s intervention follows a further 1,239 cases of the variant being confirmed on Sunday in the UK – nearly double the number reported the previous day.
1910
Under the latest guidance, anyone whose rapid test comes back positive or who develops Covid symptoms is still advised to self-isolate and take a PCR test to verify the result.
1911
In response to the growing staffing crisis, the government announced a further £300m of retention money on Friday, which Vic Rayner, the chief executive of the National Care Forum, described as “extremely welcome”.
1912
The Labour leader, who is also a former director of public prosecutions, said it was a “very serious” revelation and “hard to see” how Johnson’s attendance in a room with aides pictured wearing tinsel and a Santa hat was “compliant with the rules”.
“This is very important because has damaged his authority.
He is now so weak, his party is so divided – he can’t deliver the leadership this country needs.
1913
The virologist Prof Ian Jones, of Reading University, said the grimmest scenarios did not take into account the availability of new antiviral drugs that have been shown to lessen the impact of the virus if given soon after infection.
1914
On Saturday night, the former cabinet minister Damian Green indicated he would not be supporting the government unless it could be shown that Omicron was a more lethal variant than its predecessor.
1915
One Johnson loyalist said he thought the PM could still rescue the situation, but added quickly that if he didn’t by early in the new year the party would show its ruthless streak.
1916
“The prime minister briefly took part virtually in a quiz to thank staff for their hard work throughout the year.”
1917
The investigation was later widened to include another festive celebration and a reported staff leaving do.
1918
A year ago humanity embarked on a project to vaccinate every person against Covid-19.
Further research has suggested that cat and dog infections are relatively common.
1919
Scientists in South Africa, Lessells among them, traced a particular sample of coronavirus to a 36-year-old woman who was not receiving effective antiviral therapy.
1920
He added that Johnson knew about it and would have had to walk past the area where it was held to go upstairs to his own flat.
1921
He could end that investigation now by admitting that it happened to get the cabinet secretary back doing the work of the government,” he said.
1922
“In many African countries we have some existing systems for vaccinations, but these require massive expansion and support for mass adult campaigns – even once a steady supply of vaccines is available,” he wrote.
1923
The terms of reference for the investigation, published on Thursday, said “where there are credible allegations relating to other gatherings, these may be investigated”.
1924
Like other health care industries, pharmacies were often at capacity even before the pandemic hit.
“​​We need people to get motivated to get their booster.
1925
Japanese researchers have developed masks that use ostrich antibodies to detect Covid-19 by glowing under ultraviolet light.
1926
Announcing the hastily set up review on Wednesday following public outrage over a video showing Downing Street staff joking about the supposed party on 18 December last year, Johnson initially said it would look into only that event.
1927
Acland-Hood said that about 24 staff of mixed seniority were present.
The base for their gathering was said to be the “control centre” spearheaded by Cummings.
1928
“However we need to gather more evidence to determine whether the spectrum of disease severity caused by Omicron is different to that of all the variants that have been circulating so far,” Cavaleri said.
1929
Details have also emerged about another social event amid the lockdown last December, in the offices of the team running Shaun Bailey’s bid to be mayor of London.
1930
However, others have expressed frustration, saying it risks causing confusion and unequal access to the booster vaccines.
1931
The government is expanding its vaccine mandate to other categories of workers, including law enforcement officers and teachers.
1932
Given how many parties are now under the spotlight, Javid said Case was “not just looking at a particular date” but “free to look at whatever dates he wants to consider”.
1933
Uefa has confirmed that Tottenham’s Europa Conference League tie at home against Rennes on Thursday night is off in the wake of the alarming rise in Covid cases at the London club.
1934
The impact of any loss of trust may go far beyond the conflicting advice about Christmas parties, Reicher warned, potentially extending to areas such as the vaccination and booster programmes, which are already hampered by low trust in some communities.
1935
He added that the strategy adopted by the UK and others to accelerate booster programmes was “the right way to go”, with an extra dose appearing to compensate for the vaccine being less well matched to Omicron than to earlier Covid strains.
1936
In Scotland and Wales, nothing will change.
But the government could face serious difficulties in the coming days if further measures become necessary.
1937
Assuming Omicron has some transmission advantage and some degree of immune escape – the scenario judged to be most probable – the scientists said it was highly likely that “very stringent measures” would be required to control growth and keep R below 1.
1938
However, she told the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper that she was “glad I was at home” when she received a text message to isolate, and she cancelled her plans for the next day.
1939
However, health specialists fear that progress could be undone by Omicron and Bolsonaro’s opposition to tougher rules for international travellers.
1940
The UK secured 100m doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine.
The news came as a study found the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines are highly effective after two doses against the variant identified in India.
1941
Queensland has declared a “world-first” sub-lineage of Omicron but experts say it’s not a new variant or a new strain and more information is needed.
1942
Having kept the virus in check for much of the pandemic, South Korea has had, on average, more than 5,000 new cases a day for the past week.
1943
The Friday before was 18 December, the date on which multiple sources have said there was a staff party inside Downing Street, which would have contravened strict Covid regulations in place at the time.
1944
The multiple leaks from within the civil service are also a sign that all is not well in Johnson’s administration, with deep discontent in Whitehall.
1945
The discovery came as the prime minister told the cabinet that Omicron appeared to be more transmissible and officials conceded this would have consequences for its impact, and the likelihood of further restrictions being needed.
1946
He said there were “five pandemic stabilisers to keep mortality down”.
Kluge said there was a need to avoid both school closures and home learning.
1947
A businessman who has a severe nut allergy has accused the UK government of endangering his life after he was served nuts and traces of nuts during hotel quarantine after returning from a work trip to South Africa.
1948
In further comments at a virtual press briefing from Copenhagen, Kluge, a Belgian doctor and public health expert, also cautioned against rushing to making vaccination mandatory given the risk to public acceptance.
1949
Spielman would not be drawn on the number of children who have been made more vulnerable by the pandemic lockdowns, or on the length of time that will be needed for the education system in England to repair the damage.
1950
The findings sharply contrast with overall mortality for England’s population, which was 14% higher than the previous year.
1951
It follows separate data published last week suggesting that both the Pfizer and Moderna jabs can dramatically strengthen the body’s immune defences.
1952
Dominic Cummings has said it would be “very unwise for No 10 to lie” about social events that allegedly took place during lockdown last Christmas, after the prime minister’s spokesman insisted that “there was not a party”.
1953
Rayner said the formal process was not in place for many of the companies awarded VIP contracts and accused Gove of misleading people.
1954
In contrast, the current total number of vaccines now being delivered a day on average is 435,542, over a quarter less than in March.
1955
Tony Blair said the “failure to organise mass vaccination globally has been a huge problem right throughout this crisis”.
1956
Two Labour MPs have reported the alleged gathering at No 10 to the Metropolitan police.
Green said she hoped the inquiry would look into rule-breaking by politicians in power.
1957
In practice, No 10 could introduce new rules on social distancing or home working earlier than the official review date.
1958
Two hippos at Antwerp zoo in Belgium have tested positive for Covid-19 in what could be the first reported cases in the species, staff said.
Antwerp zoo is investigating the causes of the outbreak.
1959
“The number of cases of Omicron infections does not seem to translate at this stage into the hospitalisation rates we would have expected with similar numbers of cases of Alpha or other variants,” said Balloux.
1960
“At the moment we are not really doing anything to reduce mixing.
Some scientists said the data from South Africa would be clearer by then, but the implications for the UK would still be very uncertain.
1961
It was hard.
In the end, she gave up the overnight events.
Staff are asked to consider whether it’s completely necessary, marking a culture change in industries in which jumping on a plane used to be second nature.
1962
The country’s death toll was at 3,809 after a record 70 virus patients died in the past 24 hours, while the 752 patients in serious or critical conditions were also an all-time high.
1963
After sending the letter, Coyle said: “I believe they broke the law.
On a trip to North Shropshire, Johnson echoed his chairman, saying there was no need for cancellations.
1964
I knew I needed to work though as I was a key worker and people were relying on the store having stock.
I can’t really trust any of those politicians to abide by their words.
1965
But it may also look at the impact of lockdown on the local safeguarding arrangements.
During the same period about 1,600 children were looked after, down a third on previous years.
1966
However, the number of infant cases remains relatively small and it is unclear how many of those hospitalisations were due to Omicron.
1967
“The Greek approach of making [Covid] vaccination mandatory for over-60s is more ethically defensible than the Austrian or German proposals to make it mandatory for all adults,” he said.
1968
La Repubblica suggested that the incident might not have been a one-off, citing a recent message on social media that might have been written by the man in Biella.
1969
“California, like other states, has pockets of unvaccinated individuals,” said Dr Lorena Garcia, an epidemiologist with the University of California, Davis.
1970
She said the best way to keep children like Arthur safe was to intervene early when warning signs were visible to social workers.
1971
A recent ministry of home affairs report said that the village would be developed as a “special zone” for manufacturing.
1972
It came back positive.
Covid also meant that the number of “missing people” with TB – those who go undetected, untreated and unreported – increased.
Masini is aghast at what he sees an imbalance of attention and political will between Covid and TB.
The school curriculum is being updated to include TB, Munene says.
1973
At Headquarters bar, a man told a Stuff reporter that being back at the pub was “insane g”.
Average daily cases in Auckland have stabilised and seem to be starting to drop.
1974
“The fact that the mRNA vaccine boosts gave a marked increase in both antibodies and T-cells is great news, especially now, when our attention has been grabbed by the emergence of the Omicron variant.
1975
The ECA is understood to be desperate to avoid a repeat of the problems which surrounded the September international window.
1976
Just a day after the US announced its first case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus had been detected in California, health officials announced on Thursday it had also been found in a man who attended an anime convention in New York City in late November.
1977
Ideally, we would have been granted a sporting exemption which has been done in the past so that the team, whilst remaining in isolation, could have continued to train and prepare for upcoming fixtures”
1978
The company added that some of the 200 fake accounts that boosted the Wilson Edwards content within hours of it being posted had profile pictures created by an artificial intelligence programme.
1979
Prof Susan Michie, director of the UCL Centre for Behaviour Change and a member of the behavioural science advisory group Spi-B, also stressed the role of tiny viral aerosol particles in the transmission of Covid, warning these can hang in the air for many hours.
1980
Research from Maternity Action shows 36% are concerned about their work if they take time off or ask their employer to do more to protect them from Covid.
1981
According to a team of researchers from Cardiff and the US, the reaction can be traced to the way the adenovirus used by the vaccine to shuttle the coronavirus’s genetic material into cells binds with a specific protein in the blood, known as platelet factor 4 (PF4).
1982
The NICD said early epidemiological data showed Omicron was able to evade some immunity, but exisiting vaccines should still protect against severe disease and death.
1983
Former health secretary Matt Hancock was under pressure on Wednesday to set the record straight over £40m of government Covid-related work won by his former pub landlord after he accused Labour of “fabrication” about the deal.
1984
As the World Health Organization said the timeline for the new variant’s emergence was likely to change, experts at the global health body said they hoped to have better information “within days” on both the severity of disease provoked by Omicron and on its transmissibility.
1985
Javid said the huge national effort to recruit a further 10,000 vaccinators, pay GPs to deliver jabs and involve the army in logistics would make a positive difference.
1986
Though the number of people who migrated internationally increased to 281 million in 2020 – 9 million more than before Covid-19 – the number was 2 million lower than expected without a pandemic, according to the report.
1987
Maor has since been told he is the third confirmed Omicron case in Israel, and the first in the country with no travel links to southern Africa.
1988
Vaccinations mean the number of doses that have been administered to date.
As most approved vaccinations required two doses, a rate of 100 doses per 100 people does not mean full vaccination coverage.
1989
“We conducted a previous study that showed that patients with severe Covid-19 who recovered were at significantly greater risk of being hospitalised in the subsequent six months,” said ProfArch Mainous of the University of Florida, the lead author of the study.
1990
Scientists are racing to determine the level of threat Omicron poses to the world, a week since it was first detected in South Africa.
1991
With 22 cases of Omicron now confirmed, including one Nottingham University student and nine linked to a social event in Scotland, senior scientists suggested it would be wise for people to cut back their social activities.
1992
“We are prepared,” Cooke told EU legislators, adding that cooperation with the medical industry was already taking place to prepare for such an eventuality.
1993
The Welsh government has also not approved a request to allow the players to quarantine in a hotel in Wales which had agreed to accommodate the Scarlets, currently holed up in Belfast having flown back from South Africa, and Cardiff simultaneously.
1994
MPs have approved tougher Covid rules that came into force overnight making masks mandatory in more places in England and changing isolation requirements due to concern over the Omicron variant.
1995
“Don’t forget about the costs of this action, too,” he added.
“And it might be hard to find the perfect gift this season because the supply chain is still a mess.”
1996
“There will be temporary vaccine centres popping up like Christmas trees,” he said.
Pritchard said the NHS now has almost 3,000 vaccination sites available across the UK.
1997
Lynda hopes her mum will get the booster by the end of the month but thinks there is little access to the vaccine in Dorset generally.
1998
If updated vaccines and boosters are needed to combat this variant, their development will be speeded up, Biden said.
1999
As the world scrambles to contain the new variant, some are hopefully seizing on anecdotal reports from South Africa that it may cause only mild illness.
2000
The new variant could affect the NHS in another way, by increasing the already high number of staff off sick, warned NHS Employers, which is part of the NHS Confederation.
2001
Cardiff Rugby remain stranded in South Africa after reporting two positive Covid cases.
That has already caused problems for Manchester United.
2002
Scientists have said it could take weeks to determine the severity of Omicron, which was first identified in southern Africa, but its emergence has already sparked a wave of responses among governments concerned that it could hinder economic recovery.
2003
Further work on vaccine protection is under way at the African Health Research Institute in Durban where Prof Alex Sigal, a virologist, is growing batches of live Omicron from people who became infected in the recent surge in Gauteng in South Africa.
2004
The variant was first reported to the WHO on 24 November from South Africa, where infections have risen steeply.
2005
The poll of 1,711 primary school teachers in England was carried out by Teacher Tapp and shared with PA.
2006
UKHSA said it was trying to find out how many private travel testing laboratories, relied upon to check all international arrivals, would be able to test for Omicron.
2007
They were being kept in isolation in hospital and could be prosecuted for violating Dutch quarantine rules.
The Marechaussee did not release further details of the couple’s medical status.
2008
A temporary waiver on Trips provisions for Covid vaccines would, supporters say, allow them to be manufactured more widely, improving global distribution.
2009
The ban comes into effect on Tuesday.
To combat the spread of the Omicron variant, the UK could expand its booster vaccination scheme as early as Monday.
