0
Almost three-quarters of Americans are now estimated to have some level of immunity to the Omicron Covid variant that created havoc after it emerged late last year just as people hoped the pandemic was finally waning.
1
“If suddenly more 80-year-olds are dying than usual, it’s a simple fact that many of them had not just months but years, even a decade or more, of life left otherwise in some cases.
2
It’s stupid to do it that way, I’m sorry.
The 10-microgram dose authorized for kids five to 11 has not been tested among younger kids, who received a 3-microgram dose in the Pfizer/BioNTech pediatric trial.
3
France is due to drop its rule mandating face masks in indoor public spaces that require a vaccine pass, such as restaurants, cinemas and gyms, on 28 February, although the obligation will remain on public transport and in shops.
4
The latest warning on inflation comes as Heineken said the price of beer it sold rose an average 4.3% in Europe in 2021, partly because of a shift to more premium beers and the reopening of bars and pubs, as well as like-for-like price increases.
5
Its sheriff, Donny Youngblood, said in a press conference on Friday that he doesn’t know how many of his department’s deputies are vaccinated.
6
At his size, the approved ivermectin dosage to treat worms is 0.2 mg/kg in a single dose, which given his size, is 14 mg.
I can’t trust any of the guards.”
7
“Hear them out fully and say, ‘Oh, let me look into that for you.’ “They may not change their mind overnight, but by taking your time, you’re ensuring that they could change their minds,” Greene said.
8
One goal for scientists is to learn whether the virus spread from human to deer via wastewater, which would then allow public health officials to consider: “How are we protecting waste sites to prevent spread of diseases from people to wildlife?” Olson said.
9
A spokesperson said: “Spotify prohibits content on the platform which promotes dangerous false, or dangerous deceptive content about Covid-19 that may cause offline harm and/or pose a direct threat to public health.
10
Experts say that finding enough high-quality tutors, especially in more deprived areas where there is no established market for private tuition, was always going to be a challenge for a programme of this scale.
11
23 March 2020 2 April 2020 16 April 2020
2 November 2020
3 March 2021
All loans were processed by 31 May. 3 December 2021 A National Audit Office report describes government funding for counter-fraud on the bounce back loans “inadequate” and highlights £4.9bn estimated BBLS fraud losses.
12
Saying MPs had a duty to act in the face of the threats to trust, the former Conservative prime minister said he was confident Johnson and his aides had broken lockdown laws, and their denial of this had left the government looking “distinctly shifty”.
13
The man, a 20-year-old from Akron, Ohio, called the Putnam county sheriff’s office twice Monday, said sheriff’s Capt Brad Brubaker.
, Brubaker said.
14
AstraZeneca forecast higher 2022 sales and lifted its annual dividend for the first time in a decade after record revenues last year, but warned the boost from its Covid-19 products would decline.
15
About 81% of students who attend college full time graduate within six years, according to the National Student Clearinghouse Research Center, while just 21% of part-time students graduate within six years.
16
”In Milwaukee, Wisconsin’s largest school district, full-time elementary school teacher Angela Harris said she doesn’t remember seeing a substitute teacher in her school all year, despite staff being out sick.
17
On Wednesday, Massachusetts, Illinois, New York and Rhode Island joined California, Connecticut, Delaware, New Jersey and Oregon in lifting mask mandates for some public places.
18
The government’s plan to drop all Covid restrictions a month early has threatened to open a rift between unions and employers, with the TUC warning it could be a “green light for bosses to cut corners”.
19
GSK made £1.4bn from Covid-related medicines last year, beating forecasts in its first financial results since rejecting Unilever’s £50bn buyout offer in December, as the chief executive, Emma Walmsley, pledged a “step-change in growth” in a landmark year.
20
Canada’s capital city remained blockaded by hundreds of vehicles from the “freedom convoy” while protest organizers called for a meeting with all federal political leaders – except the prime minister, Justin Trudeau – to find a “peaceful resolution” to the crisis.
21
“I don’t know the science behind Covid and I’m not so sure anybody does.
He went on to add, “I don’t know the value of one treatment or the appropriateness of it is.
22
It has indicated that a non-profit dose costs just $6.75, or £4.98, to produce, but it has reportedly charged the NHS £18 a dose for the first 100m jabs bought and £22 a dose for the next 89m, totalling £3.76bn, Global Justice Now said – amounting to an eye-watering 299% mark-up.
23
When it came to deciding on booster doses in the UK, the clots issue and the simplicity of the Pfizer or Moderna mRNA jabs not being age-restricted, sealed the AZ vaccine’s fate.
24
In places that listed causes of death, the most prevalent have plagued homeless populations for years: drug overdoses, violence, traffic deaths and premature lethality of treatable conditions like heart disease.
25
Ek said it was Rogan’s decision to remove a number of past episodes from The Joe Rogan Experience podcast, following discussions with the music streaming platform and his own reflections on some of the content in the show, including the usage of racially insensitive language.
26
Nor has the healthcare system appreciated that these people already have their own traditional medicine systems.
It is their people, our people.
27
One predictor of Covid deaths by country is trust in government, according to a recent report in the Lancet: countries with lower levels of trust in government had higher rates of cases and deaths.
28
But Spiegelhalter adds that his analysis has also shown that the pandemic has been a net lifesaver for younger people.
29
Prof Susan Michie, director of the UCL Centre for Behaviour Change and part of the SPI-B group that advises the government’s Sage group, said: “We know vaccine hesitancy is often associated with not trusting authority.
30
In its last set of quarterly results in November, it said sales this year will be up to $1bn lower than expected, at $4.4bn-$4.8bn, while the number of monthly workouts by each connected fitness subscriber had fallen to 16, versus 20 for the same period in 2020.
31
The one thing Republicans could claim as a great benefit that was saving lives, they’re now being compelled by their own base to renounce Laurie Garrett
32
The Tuesday recall came as tensions reached a high in the county after two years of threats and increasing hostility toward moderate Republican officials over pandemic health restrictions.
It’s not going to be peaceful much longer.
33
Despite its wealth and world-class medical institutions, the US has the highest reported toll of any country and even then, the real number of lives lost directly or indirectly to the coronavirus is thought to be significantly higher.
34
In a highly unusual move, the White House sought to manage expectations ahead of the latest jobs figure release, cautioning that Friday’s jobs report could be “confusing” because of the timing of the survey and suggesting that the US would add few or even lose jobs in January.
35
Already approved by the lower house of Austria’s parliament with a clear majority last month, Austria’s vaccine mandate is due to come into effect in three stages.
36
SSP, which cut 5,000 jobs in June 2020 in response to the pandemic, said it had not changed its medium-term target to return to like-for-like revenues and profit margins “at broadly similar levels to 2019 by 2024”, suggesting it still expects a drawn-out recovery.
37
For months, several states have been reconciling their death tolls and adding “backlog” deaths as India’s supreme court ordered state authorities to provide compensation to families.
38
“I think, long-term, if we don’t see major changes in transit ridership and road and land uses, we will have huge problems,” said Tara Goddard, an expert in transportation safety at Texas A&M University.
39
“Everyone of us said if we could go back, we would choose a different career,” said Resler, who spoke on the condition that the Guardian does not identify his hospital.
40
The army’s order applies to regular army soldiers, active-duty army reservists and cadets unless they have approved or pending exemptions, it said in a statement.
41
But days later, Haley became sick again.
It’s now in the process of increasing from half days to full days to double the number of patients it can see.
42
Indeed, we know that retail sales volumes slumped in December, so it seems unlikely that the £0.8bn increase in consumer credit in December was due to consumers buying more goods.”
43
Thankfully I’ve had my three jabs and will be working from home while I isolate.”
“Thankfully, I’ve had my three jabs and will be working from home while I isolate.
44
Ryanair made a loss of €96m (£80m) in the last three months of last year – despite revenues four times higher than the autumn of 2020, when stricter international travel restrictions were still in place.
45
Gray, a senior civil servant, criticised the culture in Johnson’s Downing Street that allowed social gatherings to take place during lockdown, which were “difficult to justify”.
46
Amid estimates that up to 40% of Swiss companies were experiencing staff shortages due to quarantine rules, the Swiss health minister, Alain Berset, has called for remaining restrictions to be lifted from 16 February, saying he wanted a “turbo” reopening of the economy.
47
“The pain of this pandemic is unforgettable, and we have a responsibility to make sure its lessons are unforgettable, too,” Murray said.
48
According to the survey results, women who were the main income earners had 1.7 times higher odds of experiencing physical violence, 1.6 times the odds of sexual violence and 1.5 times the odds of non-physical violence.
49
Fox’s tweet came four days after he posted a picture of himself wearing a T-shirt with a slogan saying, “No vaccine needed, I have an immune system.”
50
You have taken the risk away from the pharmacist, so that means the two people who are completely trained for this type of question have now had their risk removed, so the patient holds the risk,” said Stites.
51
Anthony Albanese has accused the federal government of failing to understand how badly small businesses are hurting during the Omicron wave, as the Coalition resists calls to provide extra economic support.
52
“They want to make sure it’s safe, and I think I like that idea better, as long as I know they are taking the right steps,” said Edinger, who stays home and helps her children with their virtual school.
53
The move ratcheted up the dispute over controversial podcasts by the comedian Joe Rogan hosted by Spotify, which last week triggered a storm over anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, cancel culture and the policing of social media.
54
Scientists have developed a highly sensitive Covid test that relies only on low-tech kit and a smartphone, which could be used as a quicker, cheaper alternative to PCR testing.
55
To exclude individuals with any pre-existing conditions from this figure greatly understates the number of people who died from Covid-19 and who might well still be alive had the pandemic not occurred,” he wrote.
56
Last year the National Audit Office said the government-owned British Business Bank, which has now suspended government guarantees backing the loans, gave Greensill Capital access to the scheme without subjecting the firm to detailed checks, leaving taxpayers facing a £335m loss.
57
Palin was also seen eating outdoors Tuesday night at Campagnola, Gothamist reported.
Under CDC guidance, people with Covid-19 should isolate for at least five days to avoid further spread.
58
The shortfalls include managing the medical supply chain, coordinating with federal and state agencies and providing clear and consistent communication to the public and the health care community, the GAO said.
59
Kevin Naghten London
Christopher Packer London
Not another Downing Street exposé, I thought, seeing the phrase “chaotic orbit” with comments by Gray.
60
‘ACS is like the police’
Like doctors and nurses, school personnel are mandated by New York state law to report suspected cases of child abuse and neglect to a central hotline.
ACS is like the police,” she said.
61
Investors voting at Greencore’s annual general meeting may heed warnings from the shareholder adviser firms Glass Lewis and ISS, which have suggested they reject Greencore’s remuneration report.
62
Vertu Motors, the Gateshead-based car dealership group, relaunched its interim dividend in October despite receiving significant government support, including £22.8m from the furlough scheme and £4.3m in business rates during the first half of 2020.
John Lewis
The John Lewis Partnership has been criticised for failing to repay more than £190m in business rates relief and furlough support.
63
The current seven-day average of Covid-19 cases is approximately 692,400 cases a day, a 6% decrease from the previous week, while the seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 19,800 a day, an 8% decrease.
64
The index, Monroe said, would be called the Vimes Boots index in honour of Pratchett’s creation Sam Vimes, who in the Discworld novel Men at Arms lays out the “Sam Vimes ‘Boots’ theory of socioeconomic unfairness”.
65
What could go wrong with three generations going about their business under one roof?
The devotion and patience my parents show their grandchildren is legendary, and I salute them and all the grandparents who have stepped up to help their families get through this time.
66
While some scientists have called for renewed efforts to vaccinate adolescents and expand the programme to all children aged five and above, others have emphasised that Covid is generally a mild infection for the age group and that there is a tight risk-benefit involved.
67
Early in the pandemic, milk banks saw an “almost unprecedented” level of donations, Groff said.
Supply has dipped because people are going back to work.
68
Downing Street has not yet seen the report by Sue Gray into alleged lockdown-breaking parties in government, Liz Truss has said.
What I’m saying is the prime minister has apologised.”
69
The Metropolitan police commissioner, Cressida Dick, announced on Tuesday that her officers are investigating allegations of law-breaking at the heart of government on the basis of evidence unearthed during an inquiry by the senior civil servant Sue Gray.
70
In a statement after the Long Island ruling, Hochul said, “My responsibility as governor is to protect New Yorkers throughout this public health crisis, and these measures help prevent the spread of Covid-19 and save lives.
71
DJ Ferguson, 31, was previously prioritized for a heart transplant at Brigham and Women’s hospital, but is no longer eligible as he refuses to get vaccinated, said Ferguson’s family, according to a report by CBS Boston.
72
Kennedy’s comments, made at a Washington rally on Sunday put on by his anti-vaccine non-profit group, were widely condemned as offensive and ignorant.
73
Olavo de Carvalho, the coronavirus-denying mentor of Jair Bolsonaro and Brazil’s radical right, has died in the United States, with one of his children citing Covid-19 as the cause.
74
The biggest downgrade has been to the US – where the IMF’s growth forecast has been shaved by 1.2 points to 4%, but there were also cuts of 0.8 points for Germany and Canada, and 0.4 points for France and Italy.
75
The New York city government said: “The Key to NYC rules were put in place to protect all New Yorkers – including the small businesses that power our city’s economy.” “Ms Palin needs to respect small business workers and follow the rules just like everyone else.”
76
These are the social gatherings reported so far: 15 May 2020: ‘cheese and wine’ in the No 10 garden Boris Johnson, his then fiancee Carrie and up to 17 staff were pictured in the Downing Street garden during the first lockdown with wine and cheese.
77
The US government will begin distribution of 400m free N95 masks to pharmacies and community health centers this week, in the Biden administration’s latest effort to combat a surge in cases caused by the Omicron Covid-19 variant.
78
Today the mechanisms are being put in place where none of us can run and none of us can hide.”
She added: “Running/hiding in the Holocaust was rare, almost impossible.
79
Covid cases are rising rapidly among US nursing home residents and staff, causing shortages in admissions, exacerbating bed shortages at hospitals in turn, and in some cases requiring the national guard to be called in.
80
Fauci said Omicron “looks like” it is causing less severe disease than other variants, though “it’s by no means exempt from making people sick and putting them into the hospital, particularly those who are not vaccinated”.
81
Current rules in all UK nations now make a clear distinction in self-isolation requirements for vaccinated and unvaccinated people if they come into contact with someone who has tested positive for Covid.
82
Office life
In other words, life.
 Shopping Lockdowns turned homewares into fast fashion used to dress home offices for work Zoom calls Zoe Wood
83
The surge in cases of the Omicron variant has not only swamped US hospitals with record numbers of patients with Covid-19, it has also caused frightening moments and major challenges for people seeking treatment for other problems.
84
Ruffner King’s statement “absolutely caused public alarm”, police said, adding that she “contacted law enforcement to apologize”.
85
Customers have complained of delays of up to an hour when phoning Royal Mail customer service agents to complain about missing post.
86
The CDC also found that in December, unvaccinated adults in that same age group experienced a rate of Covid-related hospitalization 17 times higher than those who are fully vaccinated.
87
Horta-Osório entertained a French Credit Suisse client and the client’s family, but also brought two of his children along, using Credit Suisse hospitality tickets that had not been taken up, a person close to him claimed.
88
The risk of reinfection is likely to depend on a range of factors: for example, data suggests it is higher in unvaccinated people and potentially in those whose previous infection was more mild with a lower immune response.
89
London NHS hospitals struggling to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic bought £36m of cancer care, cardiology and other services directly from the UK’s largest private healthcare group, HCA, last year.
90
However, Foley said in the message to Peloton’s 3,200 staff that the company needed to “evaluate” the size of its workforce and indicated that production curbs are on the way as he referred to “resetting” manufacturing.
91
“While we are encouraged with the recent government announcement that all plan B restrictions will be lifted next week, we expect consumer confidence may take longer to recover,” it said.
92
This year – mere 20 days old – has already seen 151 incidents, 90 of which were mask related, though the FAA says the figure has dropped by about half since early 2021.
93
Critics say the vaccination lottery programme is at odds with a general vaccination mandate due to be phased in from February, under which people who refuse to have a jab are fined up to €3,600.
94
The website says the company will “soon start testing different treatment approaches”, but a link encouraging people to “learn more” appeared to be broken when the Guardian attempted to access it.
95
New Mexico has asked national guard troops to serve as substitute teachers, as schools struggle to keep classrooms open amid surging Covid-19 infections.
96
Since Valade’s email, conservative pundits and social media users have criticized Carhartt, prompting the #BoycottCarhartt hashtag to trend nationally on Twitter.
97
“OK, then vaccinate them,” he said.
Vaccinating everyone, including children, is a crucial part of ending the global spread of the virus, Dessie said.
98
“One thing I haven’t been able to do so far is get my Republican friends to get in the game at making things better in this country,” Biden said.
99
The state health agency is conducting an inquiry into Raul Pino, director of the Florida department of health in Orange county, to “determine if any laws were broken in this case”, the state department of health press secretary, Jeremy Redfern, said in an email.
100
More than 1,200 students in Oakland, California, have signed a petition saying they would stay home this week unless school administrators provide additional Covid protections, including more N95 masks, weekly testing and better social distancing – or a shift to virtual learning.
101
More than 100 members of the global super-rich called on Wednesday for governments around the world to “tax us now” to help pay for the pandemic response and tackle the gulf between rich and poor.
102
The Biden administration quietly launched its website for Americans to request free at-home Covid-19 tests on Tuesday, a day before the site was scheduled to officially go live.
103
Overall, the researchers calculate that about two-thirds of common side-effects reported in Covid vaccine trials are driven by the nocebo effect, in particular headaches and fatigue, which many Covid vaccine leaflets list as the most common adverse reactions after a shot.
104
During the financial crisis at Spanish bank Santander he had led the takeover of Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley when they were near collapse, and then helped pull Lloyds Bank out of the mire after its government bailout.
105
In New York City the rolling seven-day average of new cases was less than 28,000 a day on 16 January, down from an average of more than 40,000 on 9 January.
106
“The lawsuit charges the defendants for administering ivermectin to incarcerated individuals without prior informed consent as to the nature, contents, or potential side effects of the drug,” the ACLU said in a statement last week.
107
” This month, Darius Hughes, the UK chief executive of Moderna, said it would be a “stretch” for a combined flu and Covid vaccine to be available by winter 2023.
108
The news came just weeks after Horta-Osório admitted that he had breached Covid rules in Switzerland, having flown out of the country within three days of arriving on 28 November despite being required to quarantine for 10 days.
109
Nadhim Zahawi has denied the government is rushing out a series of policy ideas in attempt to save Boris Johnson, arguing that the prime minister is safe in his job despite a string of Downing Street parties during lockdowns.
Asked why he had caveated his argument with “implicitly”, a word he had also used in earlier interviews, Zahawi said: “I’m repeating to you what I heard the prime minister say at the dipatch box in the chamber for his statement [last Wednesday].
110
The charity urged governments to levy taxes on capital and wealth in a report – Inequality Kills – intended to coincide with the now-postponed gathering of the global elite at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
111
With many Tory MPs waiting until the Gray report comes out, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said there was no need to wait because it was already “obvious” that Johnson “broke the law … [and] then lied about what happened”.
112
At least 22 other states have moved towards imposing limits on the teaching of critical race theory in recent months, as rightwing media in the US continues to fuel disinformation about the teaching of the previously little-known discipline.
113
Vučić said Australian authorities may “think they humiliated Djokovic, the best player in the world, with this 10-day harassment, [but] they humiliated themselves.
114
Italian police have arrested a nurse in Palermo for allegedly pretending to give Covid vaccines to anti-vaxxer activists so they could benefit from official health certificates to travel and access bars, restaurants and public transport in the country.
115
He said: “Soldiers used to send letters back from the front in the first world war that arrived the next day and the Royal Mail can’t deliver a card from Yorkshire within a month.
116
Tory MPs will be ready in sufficient numbers to force Boris Johnson out of Downing Street within weeks if he tries to dodge responsibility for rule-breaking parties at No 10, the Observer has been told.
117
How did the richest country in the world – a country now governed by the party that allegedly ‘believes the science’ – get here?
What is going on?
118
The Corbevax vaccine uses a platform called recombinant protein sub-unit technology, which places an actual piece of Covid-19’s spike protein in yeast cells.
119
And its Covid-19 Educational Recovery Benefit Program provides for up to $7,000 to help parents leave school districts that require children to wear face coverings.
120
A member of the cast of the Sydney Theatre Company’s production of Triple X had been pinged as a close contact of a Covid case.
121
In Texas, which this week set a new record for Covid-19 cases reported in a single day, with 75,817 total new cases, more than 92% of ICU beds are occupied, according to HHS, 34.3% of the beds occupied by Covid-19 patients.
122
The London-listed company said October proved to be the best month of the year, with the release of James Bond: No Time to Die sending revenues in the UK and Ireland to 127% of 2019 levels, pushing its global box office and concession income to 90% of pre-pandemic.
123
State health officials in Louisiana on Wednesday reported 17,592 new cases of Covid-19, the highest number of new cases since the pandemic began and the fourth time since the end of December the state had set a new record.
124
The Department of Transportation, however, said the policy was not “anti-poor, draconian or punitive”, adding: “We believe that is more anti-poor and anti-life if we do not impose interventions that will prevent loss of life due to non-vaccinations.”
The country reported a record 34,021 cases on Thursday, the highest since the start of the pandemic, half of which were reported in the national capital region.
125
Earlier on Thursday, Biden announced plans to send 1,000 military medical personnel to hospitals and medical facilities, the president said on Thursday, as he announced plans to purchase another 500m at-home Covid tests.
126
Unjabbed Tesco employees who do not test positive for Covid but have to self-isolate will not receive lower pay, but will use up some of their company sick pay entitlement, as they would for other illnesses.
127
Sales of cycling products during the festive period dropped by 2.1% compared with 2019, while sales of motoring products also dropped by 1.5% over the same period, leading to an overall fall of 1.8%.
128
Online sales are up 50% on two years ago as M&S was able to capitalise on the general shift to ordering from home with slicker deliveries, including using stores to select and send products to customers for the first time this year.
129
The number of Covid patients in hospitals in England and Scotland has continued to rise this week, as NHS England reached a deal with private hospitals to free up beds amid the outbreak of Omicron cases.
130
As a result of the shortage, the Red Cross, which supplies 40% of the country’s blood supply, has had to limit blood product distributions to hospitals.
131
By the time the CDC issued its warning against cruise ship travel on 30 December, many holiday passengers were already aboard and seeing their dream cruises disrupted by Omicron.
132
Authorities said even as Omicron shatters records for new cases, they are hopeful the surge will quickly subside, and said the US needs to focus on ensuring hospital systems do not collapse amid the surge.
133
As a consequence, he said GLP began to monitor the awarding of such contracts on the government’s website and “what we saw alarmed us”.
134
The group operates about 150 DIY stores after closing 15 in 2020 and also owns 15 Bathstore outlets and two Decorate by Homebase stores, which are smaller high street versions of its DIY chain.
135
“The economy cannot stay open and schools cannot stay open when so many people are getting sick,” said Margaret Thornton, an educational researcher at Princeton School of Public and International Affairs.
136
A rush to buy £1m-plus homes in the countryside in the Covid-inspired “race for space” and the warehouse boom at the end of last year have helped the high-end estate agent Savills to significantly upgrade its profit forecasts.
137
PestFix-supplied FFP2 masks were also found to be unsuitable for use in the NHS while its FFP3 masks failed testing and there were issues with the gowns.
138
Higher labour costs, rising energy bills and increased construction costs for its new hotels are putting pressure on the FTSE 100 company, says Whitbread’s chief executive, Alison Brittain.
139
As the pandemic’s second, gruelling year drew to a close and Covid rates in Rio de Janeiro plunged to levels unseen since it began, the Brazilian city’s health secretary, Daniel Soranz, celebrated a desperately needed respite.
140
According to a new report, which is not based on data specific to Omicron, a number of scenarios were modelled including five days of self-isolation followed by five lateral flow tests on days five to nine, with self-isolation ending after a single negative test result.
141
With 257 active staff cases, the California healthcare facility, Stockton, which houses incarcerated people with long-term medical and mental health needs, currently has the most staff cases of any state prison facility.
142
Quebec has announced plans to impose a “health tax” on residents who refuse to get the Covid-19 vaccination for non-medical reasons, as a new wave of the coronavirus pandemic overwhelms the province.
143
Large numbers of Covid cases tend to be reported on Mondays due to many states not reporting over the weekend, but the 1.35m total reported this week comfortably outstripped the previous record of 1.03m, recorded on Monday 3 January.
144
Johnson has so far backed Reynolds to stay in post, while the inquiry into the party by veteran civil servant Sue Gray is ongoing.
145
Nick Moakes, the chief investment officer, was awarded £7.9m last year while Peter Pereira Gray, the chief executive of the investment division, received a £7.8m package, making them the highest-paid charity workers in the UK.
146
The Bank said growth in advanced economies was expected to decline from 5% in 2021 to 3.8% in 2022 and 2.3% in 2023 – a pace of expansion that would still be enough to restore output and investment to their pre-pandemic trend.
147
Boris Johnson’s government has shown “a carelessness” about ethical standards, the head of the independent committee on standards in public life has warned, as the prime minister’s ethics adviser indicated he plans to push for stronger investigatory powers.
148
Importantly, viral evolution is not a one-way street: Omicron did not evolve from Delta, and Delta didn’t evolve from Alpha – it is more random and unpredictable than that.
149
Officials in San Francisco are asking residents not to call 911 except in dire emergencies to avoid further straining emergency resources, as coronavirus cases deplete the ranks of health workers, ambulance crews, firefighters and other essential workers.
150
Covid-19 spurred wealthy motorists to buy more Rolls-Royces than ever before because it made them realise life is short, the luxury carmaker has said.
151
While about 86% of LA Unified students 12 and older have been vaccinated, vaccine rates are lagging among students five to 11 years old, who became eligible for Covid-19 vaccines in the fall.
152
Walensky also emphasised the importance of vaccination and booster shots, saying: “We have seen with the Omicron variant that prior infection protects you less well than it had … with prior variants.
153
But under new mayor Eric Adams and Hochul, the message is different from former governor Andrew Cuomo’s “New York tough” message or that of Bill de Blasio, the former mayor who ordered a million public school students into remote learning for more than a year.
154
In December, three snow leopards at the Lincoln Children’s Zoo in Nebraska died of complications from Covid-19.
Two Sumatran tigers recovered.
155
In a statement reported by KPRC, an NBC-affiliate, the Cyprus-Fairbanks school district said police were “alerted that a child was in the trunk of a car at a drive-thru Covid-19 testing site earlier this week.
156
Retha Roblero, an elementary school teacher in Columbus, Ohio, participated in a safety strike on 3 January with other teachers who were working in their school building while students were remote, as part of the building had no working heat.
157
Roberts and the two newest justices, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett, who were selected by Donald Trump, probably hold the key to the outcome in both cases, as they have been more receptive to state-level vaccine requirements than the other three conservative justices.
158
The New York-headquartered bank said in October that it would require all US employees to be vaccinated against Covid as a condition of their employment in line with a Biden administration policy requiring workers supporting government contracts to be fully vaccinated.
159
Tokyo reported 922 new cases on Friday, the most since 15 September, prompting officials to direct restaurants to reduce the number of people in groups of diners from eight to four.
160
The vast majority of US districts appear to be returning to in-person learning, but other large school systems including those in Newark, New Jersey, Milwaukee and Cleveland have gone back to remote learning as infections soar and sideline staff members.
161
Rival William Hill repaid £24.5m in furlough money claimed, while the Paddy Power owner Flutter did not make any claims for furlough cash – although both have a smaller number of sites than Ladbrokes and Coral.
162
Riverford delivers 80,000 veg boxes a week and this week’s changes mean a small seasonal veg box now costs 60p more, at £13.25, while a large fruit and veg delivery has risen £1.20 to £24.75.
163
“The deaths that are being reported as Covid deaths greatly understate the actual death losses among working-age people from the pandemic.
164
Lenchus, of Broward Health, attributes the demand for tests in emergency rooms to the long wait at testing sites and the fact that people don’t first turn to their primary care provider.
165
USFJ said personnel must test negative for Covid-19 before leaving their base, adding that masks must also be worn on base until a negative test result is confirmed.
166
As he took an order of fried chicken, Chaves remembered how he had invented the patriotic pizza, which costs 64 reais (£8.50), and decked his bar with Brazil flags after Bolsonaro’s 2018 election.
167
Growing numbers of operations are being cancelled, with more than 20 NHS trusts declaring an “internal critical incident” in recent days as they struggle to cope with the intense Covid pressure.
168
Educators and health officials worry that a return to school during a time of unprecedented spread could lead to the involuntary closure of schools due to staff shortages and contribute to rising cases, especially in places that aren’t able or willing to institute precautions.
169
School officials deemed the union action a “work stoppage” and said those who did not report to schools on Wednesday would not be compensated.
170
A New York biology teacher is facing up to four years in prison for allegedly giving a Covid-19 vaccine to a 17-year-old boy against his mother’s wishes – and despite not being a trained medical professional with authorization to do so.
171
The gamble paid off: this spring Cuba became the smallest country in the world to successfully develop and produce its own Covid vaccines.
172
Japan’s government is poised to declare a quasi-state of emergency on the southern island of Okinawa, media reports said, after a Covid-19 outbreak traced to US military bases spread to the civilian population.
173
The statement reads: “Staff have worked tirelessly to try to maintain services and deliver the highest quality of healthcare to local people.
174
L&G said it was keeping its offices and cafes open for any of its 7,000 UK employees “who cannot work effectively from home”, including those who need to work in the office for their mental wellbeing.
175
“We’ve just done a terrible job vaccinating our kids across the country.
Like, so many,” he wrote, after leaving an emergency department filled with Covid patients.
176
Two NHS trusts in Lancashire have declared critical incidents in their hospitals owing to staff absences, as the region’s health chief said officials were “bracing ourselves for a tsunami of Omicron cases”.
177
Regardless, on Monday Greene was temporarily suspended from Facebook, for spreading misinformation.
“He needs to stop calling himself conservative, he’s hurting our brand.”
178
He said: “Vaccination is holding up in terms of protection against severe disease, assisted by the fact that Omicron almost certainly is substantially less severe, but it still puts pressures on the health system.”
179
Unemployment rates have fallen sharply from their highs, and the labor force participation rates – the percentage of people in the workforce or looking for a job –
180
The New York state health department said that Cuomo’s Covid-19 task force altered an official report and omitted 9,250 nursing home patients killed by coronavirus.
181
One of the UK’s biggest care home operators called on the government to lift visiting restrictions after it recorded one Covid death in the last fortnight.
182
More than 2,600 US flights and more than 4,400 worldwide were grounded on Sunday, according to tracking service FlightAware.
183
The FDA also said everyone 12 and older and eligible for a booster can get one as early as five months after their last dose, rather than six months.
184
In July, Twitter suspended Greene for a week after Joe Biden urged tech companies to take stronger action against bogus vaccine claims that the president said were “killing people”.
185
And people tell me this is a difficult job.
“We’re going to go after gangs, we’re going to take down some of the large gangs in our city.
186
“I’m still very concerned about the tens of millions of people who are not vaccinated at all because even though many of them are going to get asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic, a fair number of them are going to get severe disease,” Fauci said.
187
And in the last week of December, one Michigan hospital system reported a 21% increase in coronavirus cases among 21- to 35-year-olds, compared to the preceding week.
188
The UK’s vaccine rollout has largely been a success: more than 90% of the population aged 12 and over has now had at least one dose, with just over half having had a second dose and the booster.
189
“Once you have accepted the virus is endemic, just like influenza, then you never track cases because we never screen like this for any other viruses, we track what is causing disease and getting people hospitalized,” Gandhi said.
190
It helps students become familiar with the college application process, how to navigate the different departments at college, and the difference between high school and college classes.
191
It amuses me to think of Tim Dowling having respect for Marmite eaters, now that he’s plucked up strength to try it after 30 years (Escape your comfort zone: My voyage through the foods I’ve avidly avoided – from baked beans to Marmite, 25 December).
192
New York City’s leaders are pushing ahead with plans for the annual New Year’s Eve party in Times Square despite record numbers of new Covid infections driven by the Omicron variant.
193
Despite this year’s recovery, the FTSE 100 is still 6.5% below its peak of 7903 points, which was set in May 2018, while the US, German and French markets all hit record highs this year.
194
On Thursday, for the second day in a row, the United States had a record number of new reported cases based on the seven-day average, with more than 290,000 new infections reported each day, a Reuters tally showed, as US officials weigh the impact of the Omicron variant.
195
While large countries such as the US, Brazil and India have recorded the highest overall number of Covid-19 deaths, Peru, Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina are the countries that have the highest death tolls when population is taken into account.
196
NHS: call for tests to be reserved for staff NHS staff are required to take twice weekly tests but are not given access to lateral flow tests from their institutions and must seek their own, after a change in guidance over the summer.
197
United Airlines on said Wednesday that 150 flights were cancelled because of Covid-19 staffing issues, and on Thursday it cancelled another 188.
198
The news comes just weeks after Horta-Osório admitted that he breached Covid rules in Switzerland at the end of November, having flown out of the country within three days of arriving on 28 November, despite being required to quarantine for 10 days.
199
“We are going to see the number of cases in this country rise so dramatically, we are going to have a hard time keeping everyday life operating,” said Dr Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert at the University of Minnesota, to MSNBC.
200
Denmark, which has the world’s highest rate of infection per person, recorded a fresh record of 23,228 new infections, which authorities attributed in part to the large number of tests carried out after Christmas celebrations.
201
Nathan said that her response note to jurors would state that deliberations will continue “as needed, every day going forward … until you reach a verdict”.
202
The CDC investigates a ship if the cases onboard are reported in 0.10% or more of passengers on restricted voyages, which typically have thousands of passengers and usually sail for five to 10 days.
203
Despite studies that show that the Omicron variant produces less severe outcomes than previous variants, Tedros added that it would still test the world’s healthcare systems.
204
And pregnant women with Covid were 22 times more likely to die than women without the illness, according to a study in 18 countries before vaccines were available.
205
London’s benchmark stock index has finally returned to the level it stood at in February 2020 before the Covid-19 crisis sent global markets into one of the biggest panics ever seen.
206
The agency also estimated that more than 67 million people have received an additional dose of either Pfizer or Moderna’s vaccine since 13 August, when the United States authorized a third dose of the vaccines for people with compromised immune systems.
207
Before Nathan called in the jury to dismiss them for the day, she told lawyers on Maxwell’s case that if there is no verdict on Wednesday, she will tell jurors to prepare for deliberating the rest of the week, and “through the weekend” if need be.
208
Since 22 December, people in England who have tested positive for Covid have been allowed to cut their self-isolation from 10 days to seven if they have negative lateral flow tests on days six and day seven.
209
“The big issue is not whether the omicron variant is a ‘super-variant’.
The big issue is that, eventually, a new variant will be a ‘super-variant.’”
210
On the same day the Pfizer treatment was authorized, a study on remdesivir published in the New England Journal of Medicine found the three-day antiviral is highly effective at avoiding hospitalization and death if given early in the course of illness.
211
Americans seeking to travel over the Christmas weekend saw chaos as the Omicron surge snarled air travel.
Fauci said a vaccine mandate should be “seriously” considered for domestic flights.
212
Staff absences from the Omicron Covid variant are leaving public services in a “perilous state”,a union leader has said, amid new grim warnings about the variant’s impact on the NHS workforce.
213
“We’ve said this so many times to each other: role-playing games have just really helped with the pandemic,” Mansfield said.
We play games together.
214
Over the past three weeks, as Omicron-related cases soared in New York City and elsewhere, the number of children hospitalised in New York with Covid-19 quadrupled, the state health department said.
215
Londoners bought more than 112,000 homes outside the capital this year –in the biggest “great escape” from the capital since 2007 as the coronavirus pandemic drove people to seek more space to comfortably work from home.
216
A computer algorithm had decided the mat was Iranian contraband, computer software suspended the customer’s PayPal account, automated warnings threatened termination unless the customer could prove its provenance, and customer service agents seemed powerless to apply human logic.
217
FlightAware, a flight-tracking website, noted 921 flights entering, leaving or inside the US canceled Saturday, up from 690 Friday.
218
Now, Monto is the author of a recent article in the New England Journal of Medicine, in which he considers the long-term future of the pandemic, and whether scientists can learn from another disease that was once pandemic – influenza.
219
The restrictions gave us time to understand Omicron and we know our existing vaccines work against Omicron, esp boosted. https://t.co/NdRTtntRuE — Kevin Munoz (@KMunoz46) December 24, 2021
220
The UK’s benchmark stock market index hit a 22-month high on Friday, coming within touching distance of the levels seen in February 2020 just before stock markets around the world were sent into a tailspin by the first European lockdown.
221
These grocery trips feel for Ashton, a 33-year-old project manager who is immunocompromised and has severe asthma, like treacherous expeditions where she risks serious illness or death.
222
The Guardian asked photographer Jordan Gale to document the lead-up to the presidential inauguration, which happened just weeks after insurrectionists tried to overturn the election results on 6 January 2021.
223
Asked in a radio interview about the possibility of reinstating a statewide mask mandate, he replied that, with Covid vaccines now widely available, getting sick was the “own darn fault” of the unvaccinated.
224
The Spectator’s editor, Fraser Nelson, had a Twitter exchange with the Sage member Graham Medley over the weekend, suggesting ministers asked Sage to model worst-case scenarios.
225
“The recent surge in Covid-19 cases has forced us to not participate in the game.
Hawaii finished the season 6-7, getting into the bowl because there were no available 6-6 teams.
226
Back out if you need to but accept a small risk If you don’t feel safe gathering, especially if your family or friends aren’t willing to take precautions, “don’t feel shy about telling people that you just can’t make it,” Rasmussen said.
227
An appeals court on Friday allowed the workplace mandate, which covers 80 million American workers, to go into effect, prompting businesses, states and other groups challenging the policy to ask the supreme court to block it.
228
In a matter of weeks, Omicron has become the dominant variant in the United States.
” The day she was infected, there were 150 people in the waiting room, facing a nine- or 10-hour wait time.
229
In an interview with ABC’s David Muir on Wednesday, the president signaled that the country was in a better shape now than last Christmas but said he wished he had ordered free at-home tests earlier than this week.
230
In Hertford, a market town where many workers normally commute to London, a lot of people have been staying closer to home and supporting local businesses, said Muslum Kurnaz, the manager of Hertford Organic.
231
The airline cut its January traffic forecast to from 10 million passengers to between 6 million and 7 million.
232
Visitors can now enter Switzerland if they are fully vaccinated and have proof of a negative PCR test (not older than 72 hours) or a lateral flow test (not older than 24 hours) when boarding.
233
There was better news from figures for consumer spending growth, which was 2.7% higher compared with its previous estimate of 2%, making it the largest contributor to headline GDP growth in the quarter by some margin.
234
The elementary schooler’s virtual classroom was unequipped to help the young child process her multiple traumas, her mother said, and the school mental health services did not reach out to the family.
235
So Bruyneel was upset when he went to get a PCR test a clinic Sunday in Brooklyn, New York, and waited more than an hour after his scheduled appointment and was billed at least $100 – though he could owe more depending on what his insurance covers.
The US continues to lag behind places like Great Britain, where Covid tests are widely available, because the UK government placed greater focus on testing earlier in the pandemic and heavily subsidized the cost of testing in the country, Aspinall said.
236
Covid-19 cases have fallen to an average of 378 a day in December, from a peak of 18,579 daily in September, and the country has so far detected three imported cases of the Omicron variant.
237
So we now have dozens and dozens of parameters in the model, each of which are estimates creating ‘what if’ scenarios. “Taken together, these different scenarios help governments aim for the best but plan for the worst.
238
To keep the sellers keen, Schroders is also offering a potential three-year earn-out worth up to £120m.
Greencoat generated revenues of £38.2m last year and made pre-tax profits of £20m.
239
Half a billion at-home coronavirus tests will be sent free to the American public in the fight against Omicron, Joe Biden announced on Tuesday, while pushing back against resistance to vaccine mandates by saying they are intended “not to control your life, but to save your life”.
240
The next mayor of New York City, Eric Adams, said on Tuesday he would postpone his inauguration ceremony, which was set for 1 January, due to the rise in cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.
241
Succumbing to intense pressure to offer financial support amid a collapse in pre-Christmas trade for pubs, restaurants and hotels, the chancellor announced a £1bn bailout package on Tuesday consisting of business grants and help with sick pay.
242
Party games over video callChats can get old quickly, so why not try party games over video calls.
While you’re on a FaceTime call you can start watching a TV, movie or playing music in app that supports SharePlay, such as Apple’s Music and TV, Disney+, Pluto TV and TikTok, and it will sync up with the others on your call when you tap on “play for everyone”.
There are smart TV apps available too for most platforms.
243
According to the CDC, 72.9% of the eligible US population has taken at least one shot and 61.5% are considered “fully vaccinated” with two.
244
“We got a vaccine done,” he said, telling supporters that wariness of the vaccine was “playing into the hands” of his opponents.
245
In the week that ended 11 December, Omicron’s share of new infections in the US increased to 2.9% from 0.4% the week before, the CDC previously reported.
246
— Natural History Museum (@NHM_London) December 20, 2021 “We have made the difficult decision to close our South Kensington site from Tuesday 21 December due to front-of-house staff shortages which have been affected by Covid-19 infections and isolation requirements.
247
Warren, a progressive Democrat who ran for the presidential nomination in 2020, tweeted that she was vaccinated, had received her booster shot and was experiencing mild symptoms in a breakthrough case of the virus.
248
The NBA on Sunday postponed a total of five games involving nine teams in response to rising coronavirus numbers, raising the number of contests that have been pushed back this season to seven.
249
The highly transmissible Omicron variant spreads so fast that even if only one person in a house or a close-knit work team tests positive on a lateral flow device, there is a “significant chance that others are already infected”, the scientists warn.
250
The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has “extraordinary spreading capabilities”, the top US infectious diseases expert said on Sunday, and promises to bring a bleak winter as it continues “raging through the world”.
251
Northwell dismissed about 1,400 people – about 2% of its staff – early this fall for refusing to get vaccinated.
252
The health secretary, Sajid Javid, has made clear that tougher Covid restrictions could be imposed in England before Christmas, after the government’s Sage committee warned that hospitalisations could peak at between 3,000 and 10,000 a day unless action is taken.
253
Kamala Harris has conceded that the Biden administration was blind to the emergence of the Delta and Omicron variants of Covid-19, and said she fears “misinformation” over vaccines will prolong the pandemic well into a third year.
254
Guests invited to a holiday party at the home of the leading anti-vaxxer Robert F Kennedy Jr were urged to be vaccinated or tested for Covid-19 because, Kennedy said, he is “not always the boss at my own house”.
Hines did not comment.
255
Big purchases involve clicks, not shopping trips, and remote working has turned the home interiors market into the new fast fashion.
Stores
256
Outdoor seating across New York City ranges from a handful of tables in an open-air shed to fully enclosed rooms, vestibules, bubbles and greenhouses.
257
“With winter, year-end holidays in North America and Europe, Chinese new year in Asia, the already stretched supply chain will get even further stretched as workers, truckers and terminals are off for holidays,” a Maersk spokesperson said.
258
In the US, New York on Friday recorded 21,000 new Covid cases, the highest single-day total for new cases since testing became widely available.
259
A federal appeals court panel has allowed Joe Biden’s Covid-19 vaccine mandate for larger private employers to move ahead, reversing a previous decision on a requirement that could affect some 84 million US workers.
260
But the plans were plunged into doubt after a series of sources alleged a Christmas event for staff took place in Case’s office on 17 December, the day before the supposed Downing Street party.
261
A total of 25 out of every 100,000 residents in counties that voted for Donald Trump died of Covid in October, compared with the 7.8 per 100,000 in counties that voted heavily for Biden, according to the data analysis from the Times.
262
Lindsay Boswell, FareShare’s chief executive, said: “In just the past week, FareShare has seen an increase in the number of offers of food to us from businesses in the hospitality sector, as a result of the cancellations of table bookings.”
263
While neutralising antibodies produced by vaccines are designed to prevent infection happening, which Omicron appears able to sidestep, T-cells recognise the virus once it has infected cells and then moves to kill them.
264
In September, 45% of full-time employees were working remotely some or all of the time, with nine out of 10 remote workers wanting to continue that way, according to a Gallup poll.
265
She’s been homeless since June, often spending nights either with friends or around Walmart parking lots, as she said the few nearby homeless shelters have been full and she hasn’t been able to obtain housing or rental assistance.
266
Coal power fell by 4% in 2020 as the pandemic caused a global economic slowdown, but the IEA found that demand for electricity this year had outpaced the growth in low-carbon sources, leading many wealthy economies to rely more heavily on fossil fuel power plants.
267
Joe Biden on Thursday warned of “a winter of severe illness and death” for those not vaccinated against Covid-19, amid a wave of Delta infections and as new Omicron cases are beginning to surge in America.
268
Hair salons have faced multiple closures throughout the pandemic, with this year’s festive period seen as key time to boost profit after a year of losses, and without any government support businesses are wary about the future.
269
Rishi Sunak cut short his stay in California and was flying back to the UK on Thursday night after furious business leaders demanded he put together a financial support package to help them survive a plunge in trade that they blamed on mixed messages from the government.
270
Shares in the online clothing retailer plunged 15% in response to its second warning in four months, despite its insistence that the current difficulties facing the business were mostly related to the pandemic and therefore “transient in nature”.
271
Chit Selvarajah, the policy manager at older people’s charity Independent Age, said: “It is really concerning to hear reports that housebound people are struggling to get a booster jab.
272
In separate figures out today, the ABS said total household wealth increased 4.4%, or $590bn, in the September quarter, to a record $13.92t.
273
Efforts by the British and French drugmakers GSK and Sanofi Pasteur to produce a Covid-19 vaccine have suffered a further setback, with final clinical data on the jab and a potential launch delayed until next year as they struggle to find enough uninfected people to test it on.
274
The family of the Indian billionaire and self-proclaimed “prince of vaccines” Adar Poonawalla are donating £50m to Oxford University for the construction of a new research centre that will house the team who developed the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine.
275
Employees were told they were required to have declared their vaccination status and uploaded proof of it, or to have applied for a medical or religious exemption, by 3 December, according to an internal memo obtained by CNBC, which first reported the story.
276
Beyrer recalled that in March or April 2020, one of the worst-case scenarios projected upwards of 240,000 American deaths.
277
Former New York governor Andrew Cuomo has been ordered to give up about $5.1m in earnings from a book deal about his response to the coronavirus pandemic, after he was found to have contravened ethics laws by using state resources to write the book.
278
On the back of the outbreak at Tottenham, which led to the postponement of their matches against Rennes in the Europa Conference League and Brighton in the league and positive tests at other clubs the issue of Covid protocols was prominent at the meeting on Tuesday.
279
The suggestion was made by the vaccine expert Shabir Madhi of the University of the Witwatersrand, who has led vaccine trials in the country.
280
At least three Labour frontbenchers including Rachel Reeves are among a string of MPs to have tested positive for Covid this week, amid concerns about parliamentarians crowding into the House of Commons for votes on “plan B” restrictions for England.
281
The Danish government, which last week said schools and colleges would close early, curbed nightlife and promoted remote working, on Tuesday began offering booster shots to all over-40s six weeks earlier than planned in an effort to curb the spread of the virus.
282
Political risk: 3/5 Ministers will be very wary about opening the door to the return of the “pingdemic”.
Effectiveness: 3/5 Covid infections have raced through schools and data has shown that when classrooms are closed, for example over half-term, Covid cases fall – possibly in part because of less testing, but likely also because of reduced mixing.
Political risk: 5/5
283
And while the air force does not disclose what type of discharge a service member gets, legislation working its way through Congress limits the military to giving troops in vaccine refusal cases an honorable discharge or general discharge under honorable conditions.
284
Virgin Atlantic owners Sir Richard Branson and Delta have pumped another £400m into the struggling carrier, as the spread of the Omicron variant and growing travel restrictions spread gloom around airline investors.
285
Tube usage started to fall back in the second half of last week after the government’s plan B announcement, with passenger numbers down between 3% and 5% on the previous week’s mornings.
286
Also, whereas getting a PCR test involves all the trouble of going online, booking a test, either going to a test centre or waiting to have a test delivered, and then waiting a day or two to receive the test results, a LFT delivers a result within minutes.
287
Dr. Anthony Fauci pleads with parents to vaccinate their children as fewer than 1 in 5 eligible American kids have gotten the shot:  "This idea that children are not vulnerable at all is not so."
288
The founder of Wetherspoons, Tim Martin, has criticised restrictions designed to curb the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 as “arbitrary”, warning that the pub chain’s first half profits could be wiped out by what he called “lockdown by stealth”.
289
Arce also noted that generally poor mental health among Native American youth and insufficient resources to address mental health concerns were worsened by the pandemic, with rates of suicide among Native American teenagers “sky high”.
290
For example, we’ve got a standing order of the wards we use for Covid cases and the services we close to deal with a Covid surge.
291
Workers on the night shift at the candle factory in Mayfield, Kentucky, were part of the holiday rush that was keeping the place going around the clock when a tornado whirled towards the small city and the word went out to “duck and cover”.
292
Austria has ended lockdown restrictions for vaccinated people across most of the country, three weeks after reimposing strict rules to combat a rising wave of coronavirus infections.
293
He called for government action.
Of the 1,200 superyachts on order or under construction, 27 would be more than 100 metres long, the Global Order Book said.
294
“The NHS will obviously do all it can to speed up the booster injections if that’s what’s needed,” said Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents NHS trusts.
295
Tens of thousands of people have gathered in Austria’s capital Vienna to protest against mandatory Covid vaccines and home confinement orders for those who have not yet received the jabs.
296
The spinout from the University of Nottingham, now based in Oxford, is testing two vaccine candidates that induce antibody and T-cell responses against the original and variant Sars-CoV-2 viruses in 40 healthy volunteers in South Africa.
297
In the past week, a team of researchers in California announced they had found traces of the variant in sewage treatment facilities across the state – suggesting that Omicron is already present in multiple cities.
298
Ferguson said, at present, however, there was very little data on the severity of disease caused by the new variant, and that it was not necessarily the case that viruses evolved to cause less severe illness – such a situation only occurs if it favours their transmission.
299
Health officials in Taiwan are investigating whether a mouse bite may have been responsible for a laboratory worker testing positive for Covid, the island’s first local infection in weeks.
300
The UK’s largest airport said the government’s travel restrictions had dealt a fresh blow to travel confidence and predicted it was likely to take several years for passenger numbers to return to pre-pandemic levels.
301
Two Democratic senators have resisted Joe Biden’s vaccine-or-test mandate for large businesses, illustrating problems the US president faces even within a faction of his own party, despite having the support of scientists and public health experts.
302
‘Social solidarity’ Lee Su-bin says while she was comfortable using untact technologies such as unmanned shops, she had concern for others who may “have trouble using them”.
303
Although the government instruction that people in England should work from home where possible from Monday is advice and not legally mandatory, organisations across the country are switching to home working where possible.
304
The finding that nearly all of the cases so far are mild may be a reflection that this first look at US Omicron cases captured mainly vaccinated people, who are expected to have milder illnesses, CDC officials said.
305
Rolls-Royce is no longer burning cash after making deep cost cuts in response to the coronavirus pandemic, the jet engine maker has said as it appeared to shrug off the fresh uncertainty facing the aviation industry as a result of the Omicron variant.
306
“Not only are you not making the money, but you’re not building out the cash to help you in the very lean periods in January and February …
307
At Beaumont Health, the largest healthcare system in Michigan, the emergency room and other parts of the hospital are full, primarily with patients who are not vaccinated, said Dr Matthew Sims, a Beaumont physician and director of infectious disease research.
308
Omicron carries mutations which may reduce the ability of the antibodies resulting from natural immunity to protect against the virus, but further studies are needed to confirm its ability to reinfect previously confirmed cases or vaccinated people.
309
MPs and cabinet ministers on Tuesday afternoon had believed the No 10 party story was coming close to running its course.
No one believed him.
310
Sports fans will be required to show proof of a negative Covid test before attending live events in England, as part of a range of measures announced by the government to halt the spread of Covid.
311
At $1.1bn, the rewards are 87% up on last year, and follow volatility in the global commodities market helped the company to almost double its net profit to $3.1bn, the highest in its 28-year history.
312
‘My brother-in-law died around the time of the party’
While the government is unlikely to act fast enough, given previous lockdowns, I would be willing to lockdown if it was deemed important.
313
The Downing Street party had taken place the previous Friday in spite of official rules that said such gatherings were not allowed.
, she said.
314
Concerns regarding the price of tests have been raised again after the government announced people arriving in the UK would need to take a PCR test before the end of their second day, as well as a pre-flight test.
315
Posting a €2.4bn (£2.1bn) loss for the year to the end of September, down from €3.5bn the year before, the group said it was close to breaking even in the final quarter of its financial year.
316
Since lockdown restrictions were lifted, Young has shortened the opening hours of his two 24-hour-licence venues – CBD rock’n’roll venue Cherry Bar and Collingwood dance spot Yah Yahs – due to staffing shortages.
317
The percentage difference does not tell the whole story: according to Halifax, the average price of a flat that it agreed a mortgage on in November was £118,771, up from £107,159 last year, while the average detached house costs £517,650, compared with £485,684 in 2020.
318
The study found that areas that voted for Trump by at least 60% in November 2020 had death rates 2.7 times higher than counties that voted heavily for Biden.
319
All private employers in New York City will have to require workers to be vaccinated against Covid-19, the mayor announced on Monday, imposing one of the most aggressive vaccine rules in the nation.
320
The Fulham Shore reported a £3m pre-tax profit in the half year to the end of September, compared with a £4.3m loss in the same period last year, and a £7.5m loss in its financial year to the end of March.
321
Asked how this could be the case given Downing Street had not denied reports about the party, Malthouse said: “I wasn’t there.
I don’t know.
322
Even though many people in the United States are now vaccinated against the virus and able to engage in something like a pre-pandemic lifestyle, the country’s population continues to suffer from anxiety and depression.
323
Economic forecasters have slashed expectations for Britain’s recovery and said further pain could follow, depending on the severity of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and government action to avoid a “cliff edge” for business investment.
324
It’s killed over 750,000 Americans and 36 million people worldwide.
Overhyping Covid?
It’s already killed 780,000 Americans and over 5 million people worldwide.
325
“We’re going to fight this variant with science and speed, not chaos and confusion,” he promised, “just like we beat back Covid-19 in the spring and more powerful Delta variant in the summer and fall.”
326
New York announced three more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Saturday, bringing the number of state cases linked to the new variant to eight.
327
The pandemic may have crushed some cafe chains, but Joe & the Juice only permanently closed 10 outlets and has been able to secure many new sites as rents have fallen and rivals downscaled.
328
And my father, who is 59, doesn’t want to host his unvaccinated children indoors at Christmas.
My brother isn’t going to visit my dad this year like he usually does.
329
Donovan, 27, a geoscientist from Potsdam, Germany who got vaccinated as soon as it was possible and has had his booster jab, is comfortable with restrictions for the unvaccinated, but is feeling very ambivalent about a possible vaccine mandate for the general population.
330
“We will not let them take your jobs, we will not let them harm your businesses, we will not let them close your schools.”
331
The Bank of England could benefit from waiting to see the impact of the Omicron coronavirus variant on the UK economy before raising interest rates, one of its policymakers has said.
332
“Strains that transmit more easily and that evade existing immunity will have an advantage over those strains which are less transmissible and more susceptible to immunity,” said Prof Kit Yates, a senior lecturer in mathematics at the University of Bath.
333
The US economy added 210,000 jobs in November, less than half the jobs growth that economists had expected, in a report that was compiled before the discovery of the Omicron coronavirus variant that now threatens to derail the economic recovery from the pandemic.
334
But Gounder said she sees the distinction between domestic travel and international travel, when it comes to testing, as an “artificial line” and thinks the same requirements should be instituted for domestic flights.
335
They included a person in the city’s Long Island suburbs who had recently traveled to South Africa, residents of Brooklyn and Queens and another case possibly linked to travel.
336
Joe Biden announced new actions to combat the coronavirus in the US, including a nationwide campaign encouraging vaccine boosters, an expansion of at-home tests and tighter restrictions on international travel.
337
As well as an exponential jump in case numbers, South Africa has seen a sharp increase in its case positivity rate – the number of those tested who test positive – in the same period, from 10.7% to 16.5%, with the positivity rate in Gauteng reaching 19%.
338
They have said Christmas parties are currently scheduled to go ahead, but are strongly encouraging people to do lateral flow tests before attending, and to only come in when necessary.” ‘It’s now a personal choice about personal risk’
339
” Sorrell said the government should extend its guidance on where masks should be worn while the UK is in a period of “extreme uncertainty” over the seriousness of Omicron.
340
Eyes Pandemic eyes are dry and, frankly, shattered from so much screen time.
There was a similar rise in cracked and chipped teeth, which can result from tooth grinding.
341
At prime minister’s questions, Keir Starmer accused Johnson of “taking the British public for fools for following the rules”, adding: “The prime minister doesn’t deny there was a Downing Street Christmas party last year.
342
“We knew it was just a matter of time before the first case of Omicron would be detected in the United States,” Fauci said.
That means get vaccinated.
343
The CDC director, Rochelle Walensky, had said on Tuesday: “CDC is evaluating how to make international travel as safe as possible, including pre-departure testing closer to the time of flight and considerations around additional post-arrival testing and self-quarantines.”
344
Sounding the alarm as more cases are identified, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said a renewed wave in the pandemic threatened to add to the existing strain on the world economy from persistently high levels of inflation.
345
And this costs …
This is an enormous health cost coming along.
On Tuesday, Greece said it would make Covid vaccinations mandatory for people aged 60 and older in order to protect its faltering health system.
346
Marcus Lamb, the co-founder of the leading Christian TV network Daystar who railed against Covid-19 vaccines, has died of Covid-19.
347
Members of the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (Nervtag) held an extraordinary meeting last Thursday and agreed they could not rule out the new variant causing a larger wave of infections that could potentially overwhelm the NHS.
348
Case rates – the daily cases per million people in any country – show how many European countries faced new highs in infection during last winter.
349
Instead, she said, the decision seems to be less about unemployment policy and more about political tools “to aggravate the partisan divide,” Paxton said.
350
Matthew Taylor, chief executive of the NHS Confederation, said: “Health leaders expect the government to act decisively to prevent an NHS crisis and not once it is too late, as this is what their patients and their hardworking teams deserve. “
351
Trump announced he had Covid on 2 October.
”The White House had still not told the public Trump tested positive and then negative two days before.
352
According to the corporate analysis firm Tokyo Shoko Research, 70% of companies said they would not hold bonenkai this year, although that compares with more than 94% who cancelled last December.
353
“We think it’s likely that people will have substantial protection against severe disease caused by Omicron,” said Uğur Şahin, the chief executive and co-founder of Pfizer’s German partner BioNTech, who defined severe disease as cases requiring hospital treatment.
354
Lara Logan, a host on the Fox Nation streaming service, was discussing Omicron on Fox News Prime Time on Monday night, amid fears that the new variant will trigger a new wave of Covid cases and further deepen political divisions over how to respond.
355
A rebel Russian monk who castigated the Kremlin and denied that the coronavirus existed has been convicted on accusations of encouraging suicides and given a three-and-a-half-year prison sentence.
356
In March, another Texas man pleaded guilty to orchestrating a fraudulent scheme to obtain approximately $24.9m in PPP loans by submitting 15 fraudulent applications.
357
Germany’s chancellor-to-be, Olaf Scholz, supports making vaccination against Covid-19 mandatory, German media have reported, as neighbouring Austria is debating how to enforce obligatory jabs from February.
358
Johan Lundgren, easyJet’s chief executive, said “many uncertainties remain as we navigate the winter” and the airline expected a “tough winter” outside the holiday period.
359
“We’re fully booked for the Christmas season and we’re quite pleased with that but we’ve had some cancellations come through,” she says, adding that the bulk came on Sunday after Boris Johnson announced tighter rules in response to the variant.
360
The choice of word of 2021 was a seemingly obvious one for the US publisher, which said searches for “vaccine” on its website increased by 601% compared with last year, amid a broad rollout of vaccinations for Covid-19.
361
Additional police officers from Quebec were deployed to reinforce Ottawa city police, Ontario provincial police and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in the city.
362
A student completing her diploma of nursing through Tafe in Victoria told Guardian Australia she began studying her certificates in ageing support and disability in April 2019, and should have finished courses in May 2020.
363
In fact, the PR campaign included a movie roadshow attended by Coalition MPs and senators, which the department proposed would include a pre-recorded introduction from McCormack, who was the infrastructure minister and deputy prime minister at the time.
364
More than 12,000 NSW students tested positive using rapid tests in the second week of school, an increase of nearly 50% on the 8,100 students who tested positive in week one.
365
Ministers are stopping supplies of coronavirus tests to universities in England, in the first case of ending the mass distribution of free lateral flow testing kits before dropping all remaining Covid restrictions.
366
Concerns have been raised around access to Covid jabs for young children after it was suggested they are unlikely to be offered as part of school vaccination programmes in England.
367
In Victoria, from 6pm on Friday, density limits at hospitality and entertainment venues will be removed, dancefloors can reopen and QR code check-ins will no longer be required in retail settings, schools and many workplaces.
368
Most Covid deaths in Australia have affected migrants, with people born in the Middle East suffering the highest death rate, data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics show.
369
The main motivation was “future-proofing” younger age groups against possible future waves of infection, including the potential for a wave that might cause more severe illness.
370
Our 11-year-old has now had the vaccine and we’d like to give our nine-year-old the best chance of not getting long Covid.
Melissa Branzburg, 38, London
371
France, which is also in the EU’s leading group for vaccination in adults and older children, with more than 77% of the total population double jabbed, has made even slower progress with younger children: less than 5% have received a first dose.
372
Boris Johnson, the prime minister, is expected to confirm next week that the vaccinations will be offered to five- to 11-year-olds in England, when he unveils his government’s longer-term strategy for “living with Covid” on 21 February.
373
Where outbreaks happen in schools and care homes, the ADPH recommended that infection prevention “will continue to be appropriate for these settings, though the thresholds for intervention are likely to be higher”.
374
“Due to the lack of evidence on the accuracy, reliability or safety of using RAT tests designed for use in people to test animals for Sars-CoV-2, the use of these tests is not advised at this time.
375
Aged care services minister Richard Colbeck believes the number of deaths in Australia’s residential facilities shouldn’t be “an indicator” of whether he should stay in his job, accusing Labor of “bullying” him in a fiery Senate estimates hearing.
376
Fresh guidance issued by the Cabinet Office on Tuesday to those who may be contacted by Scotland Yard about the dozen gatherings under investigation said they could still “seek legal advice” before responding.
377
The Welsh government has become the first UK nation to announce it will offer Covid vaccinations to all five- to 11-year olds.
378
The deadly impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the most deprived areas in England and Wales has been even more pronounced than first thought, according to research that reveals the north-west lost three times more years of life than the south-west.
379
Hong Kong has turned newly built public housing and 10,000 hotel rooms into quarantine accommodation as authorities strive to control an Omicron outbreak that has overwhelmed the city.
380
Tamara Lich said Trudeau’s use of the Emergencies Act was “extreme”, but that the prospect of increased federal powers to end the blockades would not deter protesters. “No matter what you do, we will hold the line,” said Lich. “There are no threats that will frighten us.
381
No 10, the Treasury and the health department will decide this week on a “living with Covid strategy” due to be unveiled on Monday, which will involve phasing out free Covid testing and all but ending the tracing system.
382
Plans to offer Covid vaccinations to all children aged five to 11 have been delayed by the government because the jabs have not been deemed urgent.
383
Hundreds of protesters had headed north from Paris region on Sunday but Brussels authorities said the convoy would not be allowed to enter the city.
384
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said almost half of people who worked from home had spent less than they would have normally, with reduced costs for travel and food offset by an increase in spending on gas, electricity and internet access.
385
“I have an elderly grandmother who’s getting frailer and keeps telling me that she’s definitely going to die before she gets to see me again, which is not very nice to hear.”
386
With the oil price teetering on the brink of $100 a barrel and retailers keen to pass on the increase in wholesale fuel quickly, new records could now be set on a daily basis in the coming weeks.
387
National and state leaders are set to discuss the opening-up plan on Wednesday, as Germany’s disease control agency reported 76,465 new cases in the last 24 hours, the second consecutive day of declining incidence rates.
388
Coltrin said in another video: “Patriot Guard Riders, our veterans, come on guys.
Three Percenters: come on, guys.
Oath Keepers: come on guys.”
389
According to government guidelines, when the prince tested positive, the duchess was not required to self-isolate because she was fully vaccinated.
390
Hong Kong’s leader, Carrie Lam, has said an “onslaught” of Covid-19 infections has dealt a heavy blow and overwhelmed capacity to deal with the virus as daily cases surge to record highs.
391
After he was contacted by a government department to rent his house, the home affairs officer contacted a senior member of the department to seek advice in relation to a conflict of interest, said Saunders.
392
The latest additions mean there are 4,960 active cases recorded across Aotearoa – but experts say the true number is likely much higher, given the lag in test results, and the fact testing is only advised for those with symptoms or who have been a direct contact of a case.
393
ISD’s research coordinator, Zoé Fourel, who led the study, said that while some Facebook groups dedicated to the sale of fake Covid passes had about 1,000 members, there were Instagram accounts with as many as 17,000 followers.
394
Police moved in to clear and arrest the remaining protesters on the border bridge early on Sunday, trying to end one of the main demonstrations that have broken out across Canada against Covid-19 vaccine mandates and other restrictions to bring the pandemic under control.
395
“Should the strike action occur it will cause significant disruption to the safe staffing of health facilities and presenting a risk to employee and public health and safety,” the court notification read.
396
Almost half of the recruiters surveyed said they were struggling to fill vacancies, and 41% said more staff were leaving – a phenomenon that has been dubbed the “great resignation”
397
Cancer screening dropped by 10% in Victoria alone in the first year of the pandemic.
Cancer treatment takes a long time – people can sometimes undergo treatment for a year or more.
398
Study co-author Prof Nicholas Biddle said the survey also found a “decline in confidence in hospitals and the health system, the largest we have seen during the pandemic”.
399
New Zealand authorities have deployed Barry Manilow against protesters at its parliament, playing his greatest hits at hundreds camped out over coronavirus restrictions.
400
“People at risk are hiding at home, unable to know who is safe; workers are expected to put themselves in harm’s way without access to tests; concession card holders struggle to access the limited number of RATs notionally allocated to them,” it said.
401
Now, leading British film-makers have taken inspiration from the near loss of their own community pubs to produce a feature film that they describe as “a love-letter to family, community, real ale and Britain’s forgotten rural traditions”.
402
Nick Brook, deputy general secretary of the National Association for Head Teachers union, said: “Every child in every school in every part of the country should be able to access tutoring support if they need it regardless of their family income.
403
It comes as Australia-wide at least 47 deaths were reported and the Western Australia government warned restrictions were likely to be introduced as cases in that state rose.
404
“The pandemic is rolling down right now, they can remove the mandates, all the mandates, and everyone’s happy.
“We want the right to choose,” Ravensbergen said.
405
On Saturday, the city of 7.5 million people reported a record 1,514 new coronavirus infections, up from Friday’s 1,325, in the biggest test yet for the Chinese territory’s “dynamic zero-Covid” strategy.
406
Demonstrators against Covid-19 restrictions in France and the Netherlands staged protests on Saturday inspired by the “freedom convoy” demonstrations in Canada.
407
A new one could turn out to be even more pathogenic than the Delta variant, for example.” ‘There seems to be the perception that immunocompromised people are very old and very sick and it doesn’t really matter’
408
” CBA’s head of small business banking, Clare Morgan, said the bank was expanding its invoice finance product, Stream, which it started rolling out last year, as customers grappled with cash flow issues caused by the supply chain crisis.
409
Adding to pressures is a rise in inquiries from the community from people wanting to leave aged care facilities for home care, Drozd said.
410
A judge on Friday ordered protesters at the Ambassador Bridge over the US-Canadian border to end the blockade that has now entered a sixth day.
411
Boys says this is because when jobs are hard to come by, people can find themselves doing work that doesn’t match their skills or aspirations.
412
Before the announcement, people travelling to France from outside the EU, including from the UK, were required to present a negative Covid test result from the previous 48 hours, regardless of vaccination status.
413
China’s medical products regulator has conditionally approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 drug Paxlovid, making it the first oral pill specifically developed to treat the disease cleared in the country.
414
Parents who are home schooling because of Covid say schools are not giving them any work in case they are seen to support unauthorised absences.
415
Millionaire businessman Neville Power is facing a possible jail term after pleading guilty to breaches of Western Australia’s strict Covid quarantine laws during a private helicopter trip.
416
Asked about the proposals to end most free community Covid testing, a government spokesperson said: “We will set out more detail in the plan for living with Covid, but there are no plans to stop free tests when regulations expire.”
417
Jabour said as imported prices rose, the pandemic had seen a greater push towards supporting local and heightened demand for Australian-grown product, which was generally priced more reasonably.
418
We are caring for Covid-19 positive patients in the community and managing long Covid as well as the vaccine rollout, on top of our day-to-day care and catchup care from patients who delayed or avoided healthcare during the pandemic,” she says.
419
[One] thing that seems really shocking to me is the level of vulgarity Kate Hannah
A complicated picture
“Of course, it’s a very complicated picture.
420
The DHSC’s newly released list says that 25.5m items ordered from PPE Medpro, worth £124.7m, have not been supplied to the NHS, which appears to include the 25m sterile surgical gowns ordered in June 2020 for £122m.
421
UK exports of goods to the EU have fallen by £20bn compared with the last period of stable trade with Europe, according to official figures marking the first full year since Brexit.
422
Citing data from the UK Health Security Agency, he said the reason why some countries could end restrictions was because vaccines had led to a dramatic reduction in hospitalisation and mortality rates.
423
Children aged 12 to 17 will now be able to visit by showing a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of arrival in Spain, as an alternative to presenting a Covid certificate with proof of having been fully vaccinated.
424
“I’m so excited, I’m like a child!” said one woman lining up with her boyfriend for the 10.22am departure, a 22nd birthday present of a trip to Paris.
425
Sarah*, primary school teaching assistant, the Midlands Youth carers service manager: ‘The onus on disabled and sick to avoid society underpins concerning attitudes’
426
France will deploy thousands of police in and around Paris on Friday and over the weekend and set up checkpoints at toll stations on major roads leading into the capital to keep “freedom convoy” motorists out, the city’s police force said.
427
However, Labour and trade union leaders said there was little to celebrate as living standards come under the most sustained pressure for three decades amid Britain’s cost of living crisis amid a faltering economic recovery.
428
Heathrow airport has said more than 1.3 million passengers cancelled their travel plans over the Christmas and new year period because of Omicron, with hopes for a summer recovery after a weak start to the year.
429
“It was definitely time to take a stand,” says Spencer Bautz, a 24-year-old who drove his truck here from Saskatchewan on day one.
“Wake up Canada!
“Freedom! Freedom!” comes the response from others outside the parliament building – where earlier in the week Trudeau described the same protests as “unacceptable”.
430
The head of Australia’s peak aged care body has linked New South Wales premier Dominic Perrottet’s decision to lift Covid restrictions late last year to the deaths of hundreds of aged care residents.
431
From Monday 28 February, the requirement to wear face coverings will be removed from most indoor public places, apart from in retail, public transport and health and care settings.
432
“When there’s an outbreak, a resident or a couple of staff in a home, there has been persistent advice from some health units, which is not consistent, that you must lock up, and you must lock residents in their rooms.
433
The government has announced an immediate review of fairness in the pig industry supply chain and has promised to look into pig contracts in response to a worsening crisis in the sector, as an estimated 200,000 pigs are backed up on farms and cannot be taken to slaughter.
434
Scotland’s health secretary, Humza Yousaf, has accused Boris Johnson of announcing an end to England’s Covid restrictions a blatant attempt to “distract and deflect” attention from the partygate crisis.
We haven't seen detail (doubt they have thought it through) and have asked for public health advice this decision was based on, unsurprisingly it hasn't been forthcoming https://t.co/qR12cyuPse — Humza Yousaf (@HumzaYousaf) February 9, 2022
435
“Freedom convoys” of motorists that have set off from half a dozen French cities in protest against the country’s coronavirus restrictions will not be allowed to enter Paris, the capital’s police authority has said.
436
A message on the prince’s official Twitter feed stated: “This morning the Prince of Wales has tested positive for Covid-19 and is now self-isolating.
437
National cabinet agreed to set no national three-dose mandates except for workers in aged care, and instead leave booster rules to individual jurisdictions.
438
Maersk’s rival Hapag-Lloyd, a German container shipping line, also reported a huge profits increase in its 2021 results, with pre-tax profits reaching $12.8bn, almost $10bn more than a year earlier.
439
A condition he “thought would be a life ending condition, it’s actually turned into being a life affirming condition”, he said.
440
Over the past year, New Zealand’s anti-vaccine and anti-mandate protest movement has been increasingly home to conspiracy theories, threats and violent rhetoric, particularly against reporters, the prime minister, and other members of parliament.
441
She also referenced a recent family tragedy, saying a funeral was to be held tomorrow for her grandmother who had died with Covid.
442
Hong Kong’s leader, Carrie Lam, has said she is “deeply sorry and anxious” about the lengthy wait for residents to get tested or enter isolation facilities after a record number of new coronavirus cases left authorities scrambling.
443
The prime minister announces tougher restrictions for London and the south-east of England, with a new tier 4 – “stay at home” – alert level. 21 December 2020 Tier 4 restrictions come into force in London and south-east England.
444
The protest movement was initially spurred by a federal vaccine mandate for truck drivers crossing the Canada-US border, but has evolved into a mixture of anti-vaccination, anti-mandate and anti-government complaints.
445
Most employers would not expect – or tolerate – people staying off work when suffering from mild cold symptoms.
Will people just need to stay at home as long as they are ill – as with flu?
446
And while the World Health Organization suggests that people who test positive should isolate for 14 days, many governments have cut isolation periods.
447
To save Boris, and Boris alone.
But Boris is done with pretending to care about vulnerable people, elderly people, or anybody besides himself.
448
But patients can only be bulk-billed for telehealth if they have seen their regular GP or another health professional at the same practice, face-to-face in the 12 months prior.
449
Clinical trials of both drugs found they reduced hospitalisation and deaths in people with Covid-19 when given within five days of the onset of symptoms.
450
All remaining domestic Covid legal restrictions in England are likely to be scrapped later this month, Boris Johnson has announced.
Did we know this was going to happen?
So what happens if you get Covid?
451
She said she should have “immediately” ended the meeting, and described not doing so as a “mistake” and “an error of judgment”.
452
Election plot Burgess was vague when describing the target of a recently disrupted foreign interference plot in the lead-up to “an election” in Australia.
453
“However, where that size of mask does not fit the student at primary school, there is a supply of smaller masks available at schools to ensure they are accessible for all students who want to wear them given they are not mandatory,” the spokesperson said.
454
“I appreciate that there’s a range of views, but bottom line what we’re seeing there is pretty antisocial and pretty abusive.”
455
Addressing Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, it accused the government of holding its citizens hostage with new Covid measures – the toughest restrictions since June 2020.
456
Nurses across New South Wales have overwhelmingly voted to walk off the job amid growing anger at staffing levels in the state’s hospitals, with more than 97% supporting a motion to hold the first statewide strike in almost a decade when NSW parliament resumes next Tuesday.
457
Almost a third of bus services in England could be axed within weeks if the government does not make “critical decisions” to extend emergency funding, bus operators have warned.
458
A backlog in the supply chain is currently contributing to delays and continued demand is keeping air freight costs high.
459
Scott Morrison says international borders will open within weeks – video “I hope this reopening is a line in the sand and the end of enforced long-distance and the end of us wondering when we’ll next be able to see each other.”
460
France joined Spain and Denmark last week in requiring anyone who completed their vaccination jabs more than 270 days ago to have a booster to enter the country – or be considered unvaccinated.
461
Tui has said UK customers’ holiday bookings this summer are nearly a fifth higher than before the pandemic, with a rise in long-haul trips to the Caribbean and Cape Verde thanks in part to less strict Covid rules.
462
An aged care manager in Victoria said she went into her office “and cried” after the federal government delivered latex gloves and hand sanitiser instead of the supplies her home urgently needed.
463
National cabinet is still awaiting advice from Australia’s independent expert group on vaccination, Atagi, on whether it will change the definition of fully vaccinated to mean three doses of a Covid vaccine.
464
“While there’s uncertainty in case numbers, if you looked at low case profiles in a place like say South Australia and you applied that to New Zealand, you would have something like 10,000 cases a day at its peak.” Covid-19 minister
465
Families are a barrier to aged care residents receiving booster shots Hunt told the ABC on 3 February that: “My gentle message to families is, please, please, allow your residents, your families, your loved ones, to have that booster, to provide that consent.”
The minister for senior Australians, Richard Colbeck, said on 2 February that the aged care sector was performing “extremely well” despite the Omicron outbreak.
466
Pupils who were sent home to learn remotely during lockdown may no longer feel the same need to turn up for school, according to an Ofsted report, which also cites parents requesting online lessons for their children during term-time holidays.
467
The mayor of Ottawa has declared a state of emergency in the Canadian capital after a week-long protest by truck drivers over Covid-19 restrictions that has gridlocked its city centre and sparked allegations of interference in domestic affairs by groups from the US.
468
Prof Ben Cowling, an epidemiologist at the University of Hong Kong, said that Hong Kong was in the more challenging phase of its “dynamic zero” strategy, which allowed the city to relax when it was at zero but required an agile switch to containment when there were cases.
469
Kelly, the United Australia party leader, confirmed his party was providing free food to the protesters and considering bankrolling a $10,000 sound system for future rallies.
470
The deployment of defence force personnel into nursing homes to help plug Covid-related workforce shortages has been welcomed by some in the aged care sector, but they warned systemic issues must be fixed long-term to avoid worsening crises in future.
471
Scott Morrison on Monday announced the nation would open to all fully vaccinated visa holders, including tourists, on 21 February, almost two years after borders were first closed.
472
“Businesses these days feel they need to balance between their political capital and their ‘capital capital’.”
“The Hong Kong I have known for 20 years has been going, going and gone.
473
The treasurer’s speech will also raise the spectre of higher inflation, saying that workforce shortages and supply chain disruptions are exacerbating inflationary pressures in Australia, where inflation is sitting at 3.5% through the year to December.
474
EU rules require travellers from third countries such as the UK to have a passport issued within the last 10 years – some British passports include extra months if they were renewed early.
475
Scott Morrison hopes to be able open up Australia’s international border to tourists soon, after the success of partial openings to students, backpackers and skilled migrants.
476
‘A pressing need for urgent action’
“There’s a pressing need for urgent action.
“We’ve seen double-digit rent increases year-on-year for a couple of years in some areas,” Patterson Ross said.
477
NSW reported 8,389 new Covid infections on Saturday, with 2,337 in hospital, including 152 in intensive care, 70 of which required ventilation.
478
“Defence personnel could provide support in kitchens, laundries, and cleaning duties in aged care homes to enable the maximum number of front-facing care staff who know residents to provide care.
479
“Parents of adult Australian citizens and permanent residents, spouses, de facto partners, dependent children and legal guardians are all considered to be immediate family members for the purpose of exemptions to Australia’s travel restrictions,” a spokesperson said.
480
The nursing manager of the home where Rose lives says she based her outbreak management plan on the federal government’s Covid support plan for aged care, which promised a surge workforce in times of outbreak.
481
The prime minister declared the coming election was not a referendum on the government’s performance.
Some fear the coming election is already lost.
482
The city of Ottawa confirmed Thursday it had requested aid from the Royal Canadian Mounted police and Canada’s public safety minister confirmed resources from the federal police force would be sent to the nation’s capital.
483
An analysis released on Friday as part of evidence used by the Sage advisory group suggested that Omicron was no more likely to lead to hospital admissions for infants than the Delta variant.
484
The Omicron variant is causing record numbers of new Covid infections in Russia and Ukraine, threatening to impact military calculations over Russia’s continued troop buildup.
485
“We have removed this group for repeatedly violating our polices around QAnon,” said a spokesperson for Meta, referring to the QAnon conspiracy movement that has sprung up in rightwing circles and often promotes antisemitic tropes.
486
“I think New Zealanders do accept that we can’t live a life of suspended animation indefinitely,” Hipkins says.
‘The space rocket’s ready for launch’
487
With an “Occupy Canberra” protest planned at Old Parliament House and federal parliament returning next week, experts on conspiracy movements are concerned the rallies may shift in tone.
488
But the aged care minister, Greg Hunt, stopped short of endorsing the idea, saying on Friday the ADF was already currently “playing the role that they are best skilled for”.
489
But on Thursday Hazzard told the Guardian that after consulting with both the Health Services Union and the Nurses and Midwives’ Association the state government would no longer push ahead with the mandate for the state’s strained health workers.
490
Items limited to one unit a customer include rapid antigen test kits and toilet paper.
A stricter one item-only limit applies to rapid antigen test kits and toilet paper.
491
The state’s minister for women, Gabrielle Williams, said the pandemic had disproportionately impacted women, given they have been more likely to lose work, suffer severe financial impacts and shoulder an even greater share of unpaid caring responsibilities.
492
The proportion of people waiting is also higher than in previous winters: whereas between 3% and 4% of patients waited an hour or more in the previous four winters, that figure stands at 8% this winter to date, or one in every 12 patients.
493
The decision is expected to address travel issues for Britons who took part in trials of the Novavax vaccine, initially leaving them ineligible to travel to certain countries because the vaccine had not been approved by the UK regulator.
494
However, despite DHSC contracts that show Unispace Global’s address and company number, the £680m has not appeared in the company’s revenue figures, which declined from £88m in 2019 to £64m in 2020.
495
They will still have to self-isolate at home for 10 days, but will no longer have to pass through the country’s expensive and highly space-limited managed isolation facilities, known as MIQ.
496
Police in Ottawa warned they may have to call in the military to disband “unlawful” protests in the nation’s capital and a town near the US border, amid mounting tensions between protesters opposing Covid restrictions and local residents.
497
To enter Australia, Djokovic submitted a positive Covid-19 test issued in Serbia on 16 December for a visa exemption on the grounds that he had recently recovered from the virus.
498
The ongoing staff shortages – which the government this week sought to address with two $400 retention payments – have sparked widespread calls for the government to do more for both the stretched aged care and disability care workforce.
499
Rapid antigen surveillance testing in schools should remain in place beyond the initial one-month period but could be then used in a more localised way, according to epidemiologists.
500
The Guardian obtained copies of two audits conducted for the same school, which came to dramatically different conclusions about student capacity.
501
At the same time, the government has continued its tough border restrictions for one visa category – bridging visas – despite opening the border for all other fully vaccinated temporary visa holders.
502
Up to 70% of the 165 homes operated by Four Seasons Health Care, one of the UK’s largest private operators, are currently closed to most visitors because of positive tests.
503
Chief health officers had been “zealous” in controlling how rapid antigen tests were used in their states, she said, and health advice still recommended PCR testing as the best option.
504
“These drops in screening will result in people being diagnosed when cancer is at a more advanced stage, when it is more difficult to treat and result in worse prognoses,” Woolcock said.
505
NSW Health recorded 27 more Covid deaths and 11,807 new cases on Tuesday, the lowest number this year apart from Australia Day, when 10,345 cases were recorded.
506
Steven and Narelle Walker, managers at the Aherrenge community shop, said locals were frustrated at the lack of support from authorities.
507
While the national average shows that just 52.5% of children aged between 12 and 15 received at least one dose of a Covid vaccine, rates among black children and those of Gypsy or Roma heritage are still far below the national average.
508
By then, a number of prominent Conservatives had touted the patriotism of the movement, even has concern grew that a number of far-right groups had attached themselves to the convoy.
509
Last year, the Queensland government developed a “rapid response” plan for any potential Covid outbreaks in disability residential services, which recognised “critical risks” for residents and the need to isolate any suspected case in consultation with public health officials.
510
Atagi also decreased the maximum timeframe allowable for deferral of vaccination after Covid infection from six months to four months but suggests those with very severe Covid cases should check with their doctor.
511
Australians are waiting 60% longer than usual for their passport applications to be processed, as the reopening of the international border drives a huge jump in demand a flood of calls to the passport office.
It is understood this plan included sending out email and SMS messages to more than 2.2 million Australians over the past year to remind them that their passport has either expired or is about to expire.
512
Gareth Davies, the NAO’s comptroller and auditor general, also noted that PPE procurement had been vulnerable to fraud, as normal competitive tender processes were suspended and multimillion-pound contracts awarded to many companies with no previous experience.
513
The hip pocket Sky’s Andrew Clennell asked about economic supports and added a gotcha question by asking for the price of bread, petrol and rapid antigen tests.
514
“Meta has a real opportunity here to walk the walk and back up their rhetoric by removing anti-vaxxers from the platform and making a concerted effort to counter anti-vaxxer misinformation and threats, including in private Facebook groups,” she said.
515
The deputy prime minister Grant Robertson said on Tuesday the ministry for business, innovation and employment, which manages the quarantine system known as MIQ, has offered Charlotte Bellis an MIQ voucher.
516
Of the 73% of people who died who were fully vaccinated, 63% of those were in palliative care.
Of all those who died, 73% were fully vaccinated and 8% were partially vaccinated
517
While the inclusion of reinfections means the case-fatality risk – the proportion of people reported to be diagnosed with Covid who go on to die – will fall, Prof Sir David Spiegelhalter, a statistician at the University of Cambridge, cautioned the measure remains problematic.
518
NHS England immediately wrote to health service leaders to tell them: “This change in government policy means we request that employers do not serve notice of termination to employees affected by the vaccination as a condition of deployment regulations.”
519
Police said they were investigating possible criminal charges after protesters urinated on the National War Memorial, danced on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and used the statue of Canadian hero Terry Fox to display an anti-vaccine statement.
520
The world would be better protected against new Covid variants and there would be substantially fewer deaths in low and middle-income countries if rich nations donated half of their vaccine doses, new research suggests.
521
But in the ANMF survey of more than 770 aged care workers, only 73% of workers said they were being provided with rapid tests by their employer, meaning 27% claimed they were not.
522
The TGA said anyone testing positive must still “report the positive result to the appropriate state or territory health department and follow the public health order for their state or territory”.
523
Sadler said the commonwealth clinics had not yet visited about 500 facilities, but this was because many aged care providers had organised their own booster vaccinations with GPs and pharmacies ahead of the scheduled visit offered to them by the government.
524
Leaving event for two private secretaries Boris Johnson attended a prosecco-fuelled leaving do for a No 10 aide during the strict post-Christmas lockdown, which is now under police investigation.
525
Wang said the spread of the Omicron variant overseas hit China’s external demand, with the gauge for new export orders in January the lowest in 20 months.
526
“As care home staff get on with their lives, there are going to continue to be positive tests, meaning our loved ones continue to be treated as prisoners and locked away from their families,” Nesbitt said.
527
Morrison’s $2.2bn research package Morrison will also use the traditional curtain-raising speech to announce a $2.2bn “research commercialisation action plan” that will include a $1.6bn acceleration fund aimed at linking academic research to industry.
528
Asked when health and care staff would know, Clarke said: “There will be a decision made in the course of the next few days, and that [the lower severity of Omicron] opens the window for us to look at it.”
529
Small businesses have rejected claims by the federal treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, that a “war chest” of private savings means they no longer need financial support, as the NSW treasurer, Matt Kean, increased pressure on the commonwealth for more funding.
530
But speaking at the first public hearing of Victorian state parliament’s pandemic declaration accountability and oversight committee on Monday, the state’s chief health officer, Brett Sutton said he and the premier had not discussed revising existing mandates.
531
The New Zealand government has defended its strict quarantine system known as MIQ after a pregnant New Zealand journalist said she had to turn to the Taliban for help after her requests to get back to her own country were rejected.
532
Steffan Ball, the chief UK economist at Goldman Sachs, said the MPC would probably vote 9-0 to raise borrowing costs on Thursday, and could lift interest rates to as high as 1.25% by November this year.
533
The New South Wales premier, Dominic Perrottet, says the state government has “always known” people would die as a result of loosening Covid restrictions, after documents surfaced suggesting the government was warned Omicron could lead to a spike in hospitalisations.
534
Russell, whose bail application was dismissed later on Monday, was taken into custody in mid-November after a district court judge found him guilty of three crimes committed against body modification clients between 2015 and 2017.
535
“The rules of the lock-in allow people to move around Galiwin’ku and the Elcho homelands, but people cannot leave Elcho Island to go to other parts of Arnhem Land or places like Darwin and Nhulunbuy,” Secure NT said on Monday.
536
The CQC’s comments were welcomed by hospital trusts, comingbefore Thursday’s deadline for all NHS staff in England who have direct contact with patients to have their first dose of a Covid vaccine, in order to complete the course before 1 April, or risk losing their job.
537
A report by the Resolution Foundation published on Monday found young people had returned to work rapidly in late 2021, with unemployment now slightly lower than pre-pandemic levels, but a third of the 18- to 34-year-olds back in the workplace were now in atypical, insecure work.
538
On 10 December, NSW Health’s Covid-19 critical intelligence unit published a briefing note on what was then the emerging Omicron variant, which had been discovered in South Africa in late November.
539
“Alpha emerged in an – at the time – unvaccinated UK, Delta emerged in a largely unvaccinated India, and Omicron emerged in a largely unvaccinated South Africa.
540
This week, Neil Young and Joni Mitchell both said they were removing their music in protest over Spotify hosting podcasts by Rogan, which they say promote anti-vaccine conspiracy theories.
541
The statement came after the local legislator Junius Ho said experts who suggested Hong Kong should live with the virus, as many western experts have suggested, may have violated its national security law, the public broadcaster RTHK reported.
542
This has become more stark since the vaccine rollout has protected many of the more vulnerable elderly people in society, with case rates rising among the younger groups while staying relatively low among older people.
543
Thousands held a loud but peaceful protest in Canada’s capital Ottawa against prime minister Justin Trudeau’s Covid-19 vaccine mandates, on the streets and snow-covered lawn in front of parliament.
544
On Sunday the NSW government announced a new $700m small business support program, which will provide payroll support to businesses with turnover of between $75,000 and $50m.
545
“This is the new world.
Tasmania reported one death on Sunday and 594 new cases, while South Australia reported two deaths and 1,633 new cases.
546
EY’s global head of education, Catherine Friday, said the pandemic had “exposed the overreliance on on-campus learning and international students in Australia’s higher education system”.
547
But the country’s requirement that even returning citizens spend 10 days isolating in quarantine hotels run by the military has led to a backlog of thousands of people wanting to return home vying for spots.
548
Last week, the React study published its latest report which included data that nearly two thirds of 3,582 people who had been infected with Omicron said they had previously had Covid.
549
A Treasury minister who resigned over the government’s “schoolboy” handling of fraudulent Covid business loans has said there has been “not a zippo” of detail about how the chancellor plans to deal with the issue.
550
Malta still requires 12- to 18-year-olds to be fully vaccinated before arrival.
It is worth considering whether all your party would pass a test before you book an expensive trip
551
New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has gone into self-isolation until Tuesday after being deemed a close contact of a person who tested positive for Covid.
552
“We duly went to get on the plane, and when the girl looked at my passport, she said I couldn’t board as it wasn’t valid,” Pat says.
553
“The British Business Bank was very, very clear with the lenders – and it’s very explicit in all the documentation – that the banks weren’t allowed, actually were prohibited, from undertaking credit checks,” one senior banking executive said.
554
Victorian health authorities said they had detected cases of the Omicron sub-variant as the state also announced 12,250 new infections on Saturday.
555
Though the national cabinet is still awaiting advice from Australia’s independent expert group on vaccination, Atagi, as to whether people should only be considered fully vaccinated against Covid after three doses, the Victorian premier, Daniel Andrews, had been pre-
556
‘Go low, go slow’ Dr Karen Price, president of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, says it’s important for adults to have a clear idea of how to perform a RAT “so that they’re not afraid and they don’t feel they’re going to hurt their children in any way”.
557
An intensive care doctor who challenged the health secretary, Sajid Javid, over compulsory Covid vaccines for NHS staff has launched a legal bid against the government to end the policy.
558
Now though, as plan B restrictions in England are eased, hope is returning at Ye Olde Mitre and elsewhere.
But by the third week of January, the deficit had eased to
559
Martin Hirsch said the door to hospital treatment was open to all people but questioned whether this had to go hand in hand with “responsibility, allowing everyone to benefit,” in what he said was a “delicate debate”.
560
A convoy of truckers and their supporters is set to converge on the Canadian capital in a protest which has spiralled from frustrations over vaccine mandates into calls for the repeal of all public health measures – and even the overthrow of the federal government.
561
“The Therapeutic Goods Administration in collaboration with the Australian Federal Police are investigating false documentation allegedly used to support the illegal importation and supply of unapproved rapid antigen tests for Covid-19,” the TGA said in a statement on Friday.
562
Australia has recorded its deadliest day ever of the Covid pandemic, with 98 deaths recorded, as the first cases of the BA.2 descendant of the Omicron variant were recorded in NSW.
563
I feel New Zealand is about to experience – albeit maybe without the large numbers of deaths due to Omicron’s milder nature – what the rest of the world had in 2020.
564
But there has been a catastrophic failure by government to discharge its responsibility to all Northern Territory residents by implementing these plans in Central Australia,” they wrote in a scathing letter to the NT chief minister, Michael Gunner.
565
The chief executive of a major aged care provider has slammed the prime minister for suggesting Australians “push through” the Omicron crisis, warning his “exhausted” staff are at breaking point and some residents have been isolated in their rooms for 21 days straight.
566
Asked if Colbeck’s appearance at the Test was a good look, Birmingham responded: “It’s possible for many people to be able to walk and chew gum at the same time.”
567
Vaccinating the vast majority of the world’s population was the best way to prevent further coronavirus variants of concern, they added, including variants that could be more infectious or render current vaccines less effective
568
Face-covering rules, which apply on public transport and in most public indoor places will remain in force, with the exception of hospitality settings such as restaurants, pubs, cafes and nightclubs.
569
According to the figures published on Thursday by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, a total of 36,510 households were identified as homeless from July to September last year, the first three full months’ worth of data after the eviction ban was lifted.
570
Walking by the South Bank, Marie Braniff-Hudson, 66 and her husband, David Hudson 65, wore their masks outdoors, and said their expat life in Singapore, where rules were much stricter, has made them accustomed to wearing masks.
571
Efforts to increase uptake of Covid jabs in the UK should be concentrated on reducing the number of unvaccinated people rather than booster jabs, a leading expert has said.
572
A spokesperson said self-tests and point-of-care tests were being reviewed “to ensure that they perform at the level of sensitivity and detection rates they claim and to assess their ability to detect emerging variants”.
573
Providers have pleaded with the government for a surge workforce, including using the Australian Defence Force, and complained of dire shortages of rapid antigen tests which the commonwealth had promised to provide for residents, staff and essential visitors.
574
While encouraging all Australians to get a booster, the prime minister said the “practical implications” of mandating three doses would be “limited”, and the federal government only supported booster mandates in certain health, disability and aged care settings.
575
Changes to the testing regime for care workers from 16 February will also see pre-shift lateral flow tests replacing the current system involving weekly asymptomatic PCR tests, while care homes will now have to follow outbreak management rules for 14 rather than 28 days.
576
The Guardian understands the original decision to scrap mandatory check-ins at lower-risk settings such as supermarkets was based on advice from NSW Health they were of little use as the state moved away from stringent contact tracing.
577
Aged care advocates and unions have lambasted the minister for aged care and sport, Richard Colbeck, for attending the Ashes cricket on the same day he declined to front an inquiry about the federal government’s Covid response.
578
In Queensland, there were 11,600 new Covid infections and 15 deaths, while there are 829 people in hospital with the virus, including 48 in intensive care.
579
The lowest number of cars rolled out of British factories last year since 1956, as the industry warned that rising energy costs and further shortages of computer chips will plague its recovery.
580
“I’m hoping things go well for Aotearoa, but I’m not sure at this point if we’re doing the right thing.
So we say things like ‘the new normal’ – or we just want certainty.
581
One police source said: “Lying could lead to a charge of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice,” and cited the example of drivers facing motoring fines whose lies amounted to more serious offences, such as the former MP Chris Huhne, who ended up in jail.
582
The police’s internal memo clarifies that wearing the blue and white Star of David, classified as a purely religious symbol, remains legal at demonstrations.
583
Andre, who asked for his real name not to be used, had been studying at a WA university from his home in South Africa since 2020.
584
“The federal government must acknowledge that supply is an ongoing problem and ensure there are enough free RATs readily available for people with concession cards so that people can easily access tests,” Goldie said.
585
Steggall told Guardian Australia she “strongly supports” calls for a royal commission and was working with healthcare experts on proposed terms of reference to include medical research, assessment of critical supplies and health system risk assessments.
586
More than 700 aged care homes across Australia reported fresh Covid outbreaks in the fortnight to 21 January, the majority in New South Wales, with a number of large homes going from zero to more than 100 cases over that period.
587
MPs and anti-corruption experts have warned that the UK government must not delay long-awaited measures to tackle economic crime, after a minister resigned over the government’s failure to prevent more than £4.3bn in fraudulent claims for Covid business loans.
588
According to data for England, the rate of new cases for every 100,000 people fell from 1,430.4 among 60- to 64-year-olds in the rolling seven-day period to 1 January, to 529.3 in the rolling seven-day period to 19 January.
589
Sturgeon also announced an easing of face mask rules from Friday, to allow people not wearing face coverings, such as church ministers, to stand 1 metre away from other people rather than 2 metres.
590
Instead a spokesperson said regular attendance at school for all students was “essential to learning and wellbeing”, and cases in which parents were concerned about their child’s attendance would be “managed collaboratively in partnership between schools and parents”.
591
An aged care provider says it has “no faith” in the commonwealth’s supply of rapid tests after deliveries failed to show for almost three weeks after an outbreak, forcing it to withhold them from essential visitors and scramble unsuccessfully to procure its own.
592
Coyle said: “It has taken a civil servant whose boss is the prime minister to insist the Metropolitan police investigate these alleged breaches – including taking evidence from its own officers.”
593
Anthony Albanese has said Labor “will always be better” on health and education than the Coalition, in a signal the opposition will outbid the Morrison government on health funding leading into the 2022 federal election.
594
The NAO had long singled out the government’s “inadequate” attempts to tackle fraud within the £47bn BBLS scheme that was designed to try to help save companies at risk of collapse during the pandemic.
595
NHS insiders told the Guardian privately of their concern that women may not be able to exercise their rights under the NHS constitution to decide whether to give birth at home, in a midwife-led unit or in a hospital labour ward.
596
Colbeck was asked to appear alongside officials from the health department, but he and the prime minister’s department, which was to appear later in the day, rejected the proposed date, citing urgent Covid work.
597
The NSW premier, Dominic Perrottet, made the announcement as the state recorded 18,512 new Covid cases and 29 deaths.
598
The wife of one member of the crew has said she only found out about the outbreak after the defence minister, Peter Dutton, appeared on Sky News this morning, with the line of communication to the ship cut right before his appearance.
599
By 17 January, 71% of Indigenous inmates in youth justice centres had received two doses of the vaccine, with three-quarters of the young non-Indigenous population fully vaccinated.
600
They will no longer be required to do a day eight test after arrival or to self-isolate, but will have to fill out a passenger locator, demonstrate proof of a negative test taken two days before arrival, and do a post-arrival PCR test.
601
Alberta’s conservative provincial leader, Jason Kenney, called for a pause of the mandate last week, and on Monday posted pictures on Twitter of empty shelves in supermarkets, calling for “immediate action” by the US and Canadian federal governments.
602
Anthony Albanese will open the election year with a new $440m pitch to help students and teachers manage the challenges of the pandemic, promising new grant funding for better ventilation, building upgrades and mental health services.
603
Concession card holders said they found it impossible to track down rapid antigen tests on the first day of a federal government program offering access to free tests.
604
But Albanese has closed the gap between himself and Morrison in the poll’s better prime minister measure (42% say Morrison is the better prime minister, while 34% say Albanese, which is up three points since December).
605
The commonwealth says it has provided 6.6m rapid tests so far to the sector and providers have been instructed to give them to visitors, in cases where providers are mandating a negative rapid test before entry.
606
But his job-hunting clients have made him think few will return to offices full-time: “We have people saying I want two days a week at home now or I’m not moving.”
607
Flash PMI estimates for the eurozone showed activity in the service sector affected by Omicron, with growth slowing to its weakest in 11 months.
608
Education department officials have told administrators it was possible as many as 20% of staff could be off sick once classes resume, and last week the Guardian revealed more than 70 public schools across NSW already had staff vacancy rates of 20% or higher.
609
The criteria also states that if countries accept proof of vaccination to waive travel restrictions such as testing or quarantine requirements, they should in principle lift restrictions on travel for all double-dosed international travellers.
610
Last week, leaked minutes of the Yuendumu local emergency health response group – made up of NT police, health workers and key community organisations – expressed concern that the “urban model” of managing Covid at home was not working in the community.
611
They called for any confusion about vaccinating children against parent consent to be cleared through the mature minor doctrine becoming accepted as “standard practice” throughout Australia.
612
Barnaby Joyce has apologised for claiming “people aren’t dying” of Covid in Australia, while also blaming consumers and businesses for hoarding rapid antigen tests.
613
London recorded the biggest drop for in-person spending for retail and hospitality, losing as much as 47 weeks’ worth of sales between March 2020 and November 2021 compared with the average value for weekly transactions in 2019 before the crisis hit.
614
Moran said the government must create a compensation scheme for “any of these key workers who have been unable to return to work” and “as a first step in protecting our public services from the impact of long Covid
615
But Mortimer added: “We do have to acknowledge that as the deadline approaches, some frontline staff will have to leave their present roles if they continue to decline to be vaccinated.”
616
“I’m beyond devastated.
I’m just gutted to be treated like this,” she said of being unable to leave to attend the funeral.
617
A research review from the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute led by paediatrician Prof Sharon Goldfeld said interventions needed to be developed now to address growing disparities in child health and wellbeing due to the pandemic.
618
A hamster surrendered to Hong Kong authorities by its owners has tested positive for Covid-19 and more than 2,200 hamsters have been culled, as the city grapples to contain an outbreak of the virus.
619
“However, given that case numbers are in decline in all regions and that hospitalisations are starting to drop, I don’t think lifting restrictions poses a large risk of causing a major resurgence.
620
At the time it was proposed, our survey found that 90% of trust leaders – regardless of whether they support mandatory vaccinations or not – were concerned about the potential for additional staff gaps in both the NHS and social care.
621
Ardern said on Sunday the country would try to slow the spread of Omicron but it was expected New Zealand would reach 1,000 cases a day in the coming weeks and thousands a day after that
622
Both state governments flagged that staff shortages would be one of the biggest challenges when students returned to the classroom, as teachers test positive for the virus or need to stay home to care for cases or close contacts.
623
Interpreting services have faced increasing challenges in New South Wales during the Omicron wave, with patients struggling to access the service and long hold times on phone lines increasing the pressure.
624
Meanwhile, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) has designated the Omicron offshoot known as BA.2, which has a potentially higher growth rate, a “variant under investigation” – but virologists have said there’s no immediate cause for concern.
625
Most trade unions have encouraged their members to get vaccinated, but have also warned that cutting company sick pay could backfire, and potentially risk workplace outbreaks, if unvaccinated staff decide that they cannot afford to self-isolate.
626
Although official guidance is to “suggest” that individuals wear masks in crowded and enclosed spaces with people they do not normally meet, Kidney Care UK and Blood Cancer UK said that ministers were not telling the public this.
627
Like Lesley Brown and Kate, Dave, a 66-year-old retired social services worker from Devon, has been shielding since March 2020 due to a history of leukaemia and heart problems.
628
Early vaccine data for blood cancer patients – of whom there are 250,000 in the UK – found little or no antibody response to the first dose of vaccine.
629
The federal health minister, Greg Hunt, said on Saturday that he sympathised with families kept apart by the extended WA state border closure, but stopped short of the sort of outright criticism previously levelled at states over hardline border policies.
630
The number of visitors to UK city centres outside London was up nearly 2% on Thursday compared with the same day a week before and almost 4% higher in the capital.
631
Before you head angrily to the comment section, hear this: I am not complaining at all.
So I am not complaining about the borders.
632
“Our study found a majority of long Covid patients had mild Covid, yet some were still experiencing symptoms 18 months after infection.
633
Applications to terminate enterprise agreements were relatively rare until a landmark decision in 2015 in which rail company Aurizon convinced the FWC to tear up a dozen agreements it had previously struck with unions.
634
As of Friday, 75.5% of kids aged 12-15 have had two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, and 24% of kids aged five to 12 have had one dose.
,” she says.
635
The Tourism Council CEO, Evan Hall, says businesses that rely on international and interstate guests are already struggling to survive, and are now facing financial ruin.
636
Kristalina Georgieva said Beijing should reassess the use of lockdowns to limit the spread of the highly contagious Omicron variant since it became clear the harm to human health was less severe than the Delta variant.
637
At the time, Walton was working in a pub and wearing a face mask. “I hadn’t left the house other than to go to work because I was working nine hours every day, coming home, getting up, going back to work,” she said.
638
The prime minister believes it is vital that children are receiving face-to-face education and can enjoy a normal experience in the classroom and the prime minister also thinks that the schools should follow the latest guidance.
639
Retailers are bracing themselves after a sharp fall in December spending was expected to be the prelude to a tough year ahead as consumers grapple with the impact of higher taxes and rising energy bills.
640
A hamster life is still a life and that’s what a lot of volunteers are thinking.”
“The virus could multiply via cross-infection and spread to pet shops and other retail outlets.”
641
The Nationals MP George Christensen, who earned a rare rebuke from Morrison this week for his advocacy against giving children Covid-19 vaccines, promised he would continue to “prod the powerful” after he leaves parliament at the next election.
642
The 2022 Sex and Power Index, compiled by the Fawcett Society, a charity campaigning for women’s rights, showed equality is still “decades off”, as men continue to dominate the top ranks of law, politics and business.
643
Chen Xi, a public health expert at Yale school of public health, said that although China kept insisting on the “zero Covid” policy, the authorities were also hedging their bets.
644
According to the minutes of a meeting of the Yuendumu local emergency management Covid response group held on Tuesday, local police and health authorities were not told about the return flight.
645
Chant also warned the number of people dying from the virus in NSW was “likely to remain high” for some time given the lag in case numbers and hospitalisations.
646
“For urgent surgery, and during the Delta wave, 100% of surgery was completed on time and we continue to operate on people each and every day and the thing we’ve kept going is day surgery procedures.
647
An ACCC spokesperson confirmed they would look into the issue.
On Thursday, Hunt said his department would report companies making false claims to the ACCC.
648
While prime minister Scott Morrison ruled out making rapid tests universally free because of the potential disruption to supply chains, Heffernan said the price issue was being exacerbated by the test shortage and increasing demand from government and private purchasers.
649
Companies providing flexible office space said they were already seeing a rise in demand as businesses and their staff returned to offices in greater numbers and adopted hybrid working patterns.
650
The move comes as many schools report severe staff shortages, with some primary schools asking parents to conduct daily lateral flow tests on their children before coming to school.
651
Beleaguered pubs and restaurants are reporting early signs of a recovery in trade, fuelling hope that pent-up demand from a dismal Christmas for the sector is about to be unleashed.
652
Prof Adrian Esterman, an epidemiologist and biostatistician at the University of South Australia, said the Omicron wave had “absolutely certainly” peaked in NSW and Victoria.
653
But travel restrictions remain for those who hold bridging visa B (BVB), which usually allows holders to live in Australia and travel abroad while they await government decisions on more permanent visas.
654
Nadra Ahmed, the executive chair of the National Care Association, which represents independent care operators, said lifting self-isolation advice for care staff could leave operators liable if it resulted residents getting infected.
655
“Allowing hundreds or thousands of Omicron-infected people to fly straight into Perth from 5 February with no testing, no quarantine and no public health measures would cause a flood of Covid across our state.
656
There had already been signs of growing weekday journeys in London throughout the month, with total tube journeys throughout Wednesday up 4% week-on-week – despite the partial closure of the Bank branch of the Northern Line, a vital commuter line serving the City.
657
Absences among NHS staff in England owing to Covid have fallen by 22% on the previous week, figures show, with signs the staffing crisis in the health service may be easing, although health leaders have cautioned that staff are still under “intense” pressure.
658
Australia’s chief medical officer has conceded that children returning to school could create an increased risk of Covid transmission to their families, saying there would be “trade-offs” to getting students back in classrooms.
659
Surfing great Kelly Slater could be the next big name in sport to be refused the right to compete in Australia, with the federal health minister saying the 11-time champion will not be allowed into the country if he is not vaccinated against Covid.
660
On 6 January, Guardian Australia reported on a major outbreak at the Bupa Clemton Park facility that saw more than 60 residents and staff become infected with Covid-19, and one fully vaccinated person in palliative care die.
661
“Families that are keeping their children at home because they are close contacts are being forced to pay for childcare they cannot use, and as a result some are choosing to withdraw their children from care, dealing another financial blow to services.
662
Australia’s drugs regulator has for the first time approved oral treatments for Covid-19 which should help address supply shortages of other treatments.
663
” The participation rate remained 0.2 percentage points higher than just prior to the start of the pandemic and only 0.2 percentage points below the historical high in May and June 2021, he said.
664
A proposal by the prime minister, Scott Morrison, to allow children to drive forklifts appears to have caught the states by surprise, with the Queensland, Victorian and New South Wales governments saying they have no plans to lower the current age of 18.
665
The report by Ucas and Health Education England found that 69% of recent applicants said the Covid pandemic had inspired them to apply to become a nurse, with around one in 10 saying the pandemic was the most important factor in their decision.
666
Boris Johnson’s decision to remove all plan B measures in England – and to signal the end of the legal requirement to self-isolate – comes as the Omicron surge in the UK appears to have peaked.
667
The work-from-home guidance has been lifted immediately.
Those who are not vaccinated must test 48 hours in advance and quarantine for 10 days, with tests on days two and eight.
668
“Letting people that are at high risk of having or spreading the infection return to work quickly helps the labour supply this week, and harms the labour supply in the coming weeks when it spreads,” Denniss said.
669
“It would involve examining blood that has already been taken and stored, for example from people who might have come into hospital for an operation, or had their blood taken for another reason,” Russell said.
670
“I do a lot of work in developing countries with people with darker skin pigment, and I haven’t been too concerned about the accuracy of them,” she said.
671
Responding for Labour, Keir Starmer said he would back the change as long as it was supported by evidence, saying Johnson must “reassure the public he is acting to protect their health, not just his job”.
672
Debbie Hicks, 47, a former teacher and psychologist, filmed twice at the Gloucestershire Royal hospital in Gloucester in December 2020 and told staff who challenged her she could do what she wanted as she paid her taxes.
673
The interval for a booster shot will be reduced to three months in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia and the ACT amid unprecedented strain on hospitals as Omicron cases surge.
674
The prime minister also faced questions about the shortage of rapid antigen tests across the country, saying Omicron had “changed everything”, and while discussions had been happening as early as June, at that stage the government’s focus was on vaccine procurement.
675
The Victorian government recruited the authorised officers in 2020 to enforce its public health orders, including issuing fines for breaching lockdown orders under the Public Health and Wellbeing Act.
676
“Between September and November 2021, IMD [invasive meningococcal disease] cases increased with group B disease in adolescents/young adults rising sharply and exceeding pre-pandemic levels,” the 11-page analysis of the most recent data available says.
677
But on 6 January, Victorian health minister Martin Foley announced a ban on all non-urgent elective surgery – including IVF treatments – in metropolitan Melbourne and major regional cities, in an effort to free up health resources amid the Omicron wave.
678
The prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said this week it was only a matter of time before an Omicron outbreak cracked through New Zealand’s border – and the country needed to use this window to push vaccination rates as high as possible.
679
The director of public health for one city in the north of England said they would be extremely wary at the idea of plan B restrictions being removed so soon.
680
The CDC also elevated an additional 20 countries to its “level three: high” list, which includes Uganda, Kuwait, Jamaica, Costa Rica and Cuba.
681
But the document, drawn up by Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) officials and seen by the Guardian, said the evidence base on which MPs voted “has changed”, creating a higher chance of objections and judicial review.
682
But Sturgeon urged the public to remain “cautious” about socialising in larger groups, while government guidance remains to work from home wherever possible and use face coverings, with vaccine passports still in place for large-scale events.
683
Perrottet on Tuesday also confirmed the government was considering asking students in their final year of university to provide a “buffer” to staff shortages, a plan that has come in for criticism from teachers groups.
684
They’ve got to back up and do it all again the very next day,” he said.
Last week, NSW Ambulance’s seven-day rolling average for triple zero callouts was nearly 4,500 per day.
685
Facebook ads were used to push unapproved rapid test kits to Australians, prompting a warning from the regulator, while users offered large volumes of rapid tests on Facebook marketplace, contrary to its rules.
686
The Office for National Statistics said although average total earnings grew at an annual rate of 3.5% in November, the impact from soaring rates of inflation meant workers suffered a real-terms cut in their pay packets.
687
The seven-day average figure for cases in England has been falling in recent days and stood at 1,531 cases for every 100,000 people on 12 January, the latest date for which figures were available.
688
The strict testing and isolation rules were unveiled by Blanquer in an interview with Le Parisien newspaper on 2 January, hours before classes were to resume after the holiday break.
689
Leung said he was surprised to hear hamsters could get infected and was also worried by reports of virus transmission on food packaging.
690
Getting vaccinated saves lives,” he said.
“Vaccinations save lives.
Kelly said the real-world experience gave Australian authorities additional assurance about the safety of the vaccine for children.
691
” New South Wales reported a record 36 deaths along with 29,830 new cases; Victoria reported 22 deaths and 20,180 new cases, while Queensland reported 16 deaths and 15,962 cases.
692
Students in South Australia in preschool, reception, year 1, year 7, year 8 and year 12 will return to face-to-face learning from 2 February.
693
In a text message sent out to “special VIP customers,” St Ali offered two free rapid antigen tests if customers bought $159.99 worth of coffee or merchandise from their online store.
694
Australia’s consumer sentiment dived this month as worries about the explosion in Omicron Covid cases sent confidence to its lowest January level since 1992, according to the latest ANZ-Roy Morgan survey.
695
While Morrison and others insist that case numbers no longer matter and we should focus on hospitalisation rates, Crabb says “cases do matter”. “If we want to get deaths down, we have to get cases down,” he says.
696
Hong Kong has continually adjusted its quarantine rules for aircrew, dramatically tightening them after the Omicron outbreak in late December, leading the airline to cancel most of its planned passenger and cargo flights in January.
697
That is the reason why victims of serious crime are being denied justice in our crown courts.”
He added: “Fiddling with magistrates’ sentencing powers is a betrayal of victims of crime.
698
Asked about plans to drop the legal requirement to isolate after a positive Covid test, Prof Azra Ghani, an epidemiologist at Imperial College London, said self-isolation remained an important aspect of the public health response.
699
More of the 385 employees are due to return to work on Tuesday, with those who have isolated for at least seven days after testing positive kept about 40 metres from other employees.
700
The shortage of rapid antigen tests for consumers is being exacerbated by state and federal governments and large corporates placing mammoth orders for the kits, causing stock to be diverted from online retailers and pharmacies.
701
“Many of the salons don’t have any cash that could get them through more than one or two weeks,” Chong said, adding the daily uncertainty of not knowing whether staff or customers would turn up left salons under “extreme stress”.
702
He said those patients who required GP care and prescriptions struggled to get a GP appointment due to staff shortages and clinics being fully booked, and paramedics were often so under pressure they could not take patients he believed required hospital treatment.
703
“In order to protect the health and safety of Olympic-related personnel and spectators, it was decided to adjust the original plan to sell tickets to the public and [instead] organise spectators to watch the Games on site,” they said.
704
China is among many countries across Asia, Africa and South America concerned about plans flagged by the US central bank to accelerate a series of planned interest rate rises this year and begin rolling back its quantitative easing stimulus programme.
705
Among the four nations of the UK, Wales recorded the highest death rate of 291 coronavirus deaths per 100,000 population, driven partly by the fact that it has the highest proportion of people aged 65-plus of the UK’s constituency countries.
706
If, for example, a high-profile visitor to Australia expressed negative views about the Australia-US alliance, would the government ban this person because this view may encourage people to protest at Pine Gap?
707
The New South Wales chief health officer has warned deaths from Covid-19 are likely to spike in the coming days, as hospitalisation data shows unvaccinated people with the virus are 13 times more likely to end up in intensive care.
708
Union leaders said after an “emergency” meeting on Monday that free rapid antigen tests were needed for the whole community, not just essential workers, and they vowed to write to all employers urging them to protect employees.
709
The Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, says Novak Djokovic was deported because he tried to breach entry rules at the border, even though the immigration minister did not dispute the tennis star’s belief he had a valid medical exemption.
710
France’s parliament has given final approval to the government’s latest measures to tackle Covid-19, including a vaccine pass contested by anti-vaccine protesters.
711
“I hope those restrictions can be lifted as soon as possible, but I want them to be lifted because the medical science says they should be lifted, not simply because the prime minister is in a real mess and he’s desperately trying to get out of it.
712
However, in parts of the Kimberley and Pilbara the vaccination rate remains much lower, with some remote Indigenous communities not yet hitting 50%.
713
“People do not want to feel that you are judging them or saying that what they are doing is unsafe – and it is not inherently unsafe, they just have different risk tolerance and different priorities than you,” he says.
714
But Streeting said: “By the way, Trevor, I don’t think you should apologise for talking about your personal pain because millions of people up and down the country are having the same conversation.”
715
Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting’s 10-point plan includes measures to raise sick pay, improve testing, share vaccines worldwide and transform social care.
716
A North Korean freight train crossed the Yalu River railway bridge to arrive in the Chinese town of Dandong on Sunday, the South Korean news agency Yonhap said, citing multiple unnamed sources.
717
The NSW premier Dominic Perrottet said it was reassuring the state’s exploding Covid caseload was not being matched by major increases in hospital numbers, but warned of a difficult time ahead.
718
The health department’s advice suggests people who share a house with an infected person should stay elsewhere if possible and use a separate bathroom if available – options that are clearly not viable for many people.
719
The number of Covid infections appears to have reached a plateau in parts of the UK, a senior government health adviser has said, with experts expressing optimism about the latest data.
720
Dornan, who lives in rural Gloucestershire with his wife, Amelia Warner, 39, and their three young daughters, said that the plot of Belfast resonated with him on a personal level, and still calls himself a “Belfast man”, although he left the city aged 20.
721
Djokovic faces a federal court hearing Sunday morning, Australia time, which will determine whether the minister acted unreasonably in rescinding his visa.
722
SA Health issued an exemption to allow infected staff to work if they were asymptomatic, but one employee said some sick staff had worked despite showing symptoms.
723
The doctor personally called me to cancel and was upset and said he had been on the phone to the government department “all day”.
I said no thanks.
I clicked on available spot and it was gone by the time I’d filled in the online form “I turned to the NSW vaccine booking website and tried to grab a spot any of the vaccine centres.
724
Markets have plenty of fresh fruit, vegetables and meat available and have largely avoided the supply chain crisis that has stripped shelves bare at the big supermarket chains, according to operators and farmers.
725
“They’ve been more focused on the economy throughout the pandemic and I’m not surprised we’re seeing the numbers we are now because it’s almost as if it’s been an ideological approach to handling public health and you can’t have that.
726
The report suggests the jabs may offer slightly better protection against severe outcomes than suggested by early data, revealing a third dose reduces the risk of hospitalisation by 92% two to four weeks later, although after 10 weeks or more the figure is lower at 83%.
727
The UK economy surpassed its pre-pandemic level for the first time in November ahead of the rapid spread of the Omicron variant and the government’s warnings about workplace and social gatherings.
728
The number of Covid-positive admissions, whatever the cause, is expected to rise when there is more infection around, but the latest figures suggest there has been a shift in the proportion of children in hospital with coronavirus who are infants.
729
Macron’s main challenger, Valérie Pécresse of Nicolas Sarkozy’s right-wing party, Les Républicains, supports the vaccine pass but her party’s amendments and challenges in parliament and the senate have stalled it coming into force.
730
The study also reveals that while there was no clear rise in infection levels in those under the age of 50, the percentage testing positive for Covid-19 remained highest for older teenagers and young adults, at about one in 10 of those in school year 12 to age 34.
731
“We have all been struggling to keep up with constantly changing health advice, regulations and definitions around close contacts, so it is an even greater challenge for many people from migrant and refugee communities,” Micallef said.
732
Large crowds are being allowed to return to outdoor events in Wales and nightclubs are to reopen as the government in Cardiff says the Omicron “storm” has been weathered.
733
The UK economy contracted by less during the financial crisis of 2008-09 than it did in 2020 but took much longer to regain the lost ground.
734
Cassar said the Pullman Melbourne and the Mantra Epping performed highly on ventilation assessments, with each room fitted with an air purifier.
735
Health officials in New South Wales say they are increasingly confident new cases of Covid-19 will begin to plateau next week, as Dominic Perrottet declares that schools will only close as a “last resort” in the case of outbreaks once classes resume.
736
The New South Wales premier, Dominic Perrottet, says he was “incredibly disappointed” to see footage of young Hillsong members dancing and singing to music, and the church could be fined if found to have breached the state’s Covid public health order.
737
While 30% of teachers at secondary schools with the highest proportion of pupils on free school meals said that 10% or more of their colleagues were off, just 9% of teachers at schools with the fewest pupils on free school meals said the same.
738
The move to alert level 0 will be phased, with restrictions on outdoor activities being removed first.”
739
The news came just a day after the province announced it has no plans to restrict gatherings even while the highly-transmissible Omicron variant continues its rapid spread.
740
“This garden party raises big questions for the Met police, as their officers must surely have monitored this gathering via their security cameras and been aware of the rules in place at the time,” she said.
741
The health secretary ignored strongly worded warnings from Amanda Pritchard and instructed her to hand private hospitals £75m to £90m a month from NHS England funds for the next three months, in case they are needed to help manage a new Omicron-driven surge in Covid cases.
742
With nearly all 31 Scottish Tory MSPs publicly supporting Ross’s call for Johnson to quit, sources said it was “inconceivable” the prime minister would now appear at the Scottish party conference in March – the first time a UK leader would have been barred from doing so.
743
“Like all jurisdictions across Australia, Queensland’s public and private testing network has been placed under significant pressure by the surge in Omicron cases and the subsequent national shortage in some PCR testing supplies,” a spokesperson said.
744
French teachers have held one of the biggest education strikes in recent years, forcing the closure of hundreds of primary schools in protest at the government’s handling of Covid-19 measures in the education sector.
745
The NHS Confederation, which represents hospital trusts, warned that NHS performance is likely to have deteriorated even further in the weeks since the picture captured by these data because of Omicron leaving people needing medical treatment and NHS staff too sick to work.
746
the Jonathan Van-Tam quotes that won't be forgotten – video Van-Tam became deputy chief medical officer for England in 2017.
747
The decision to allow non-essential travel again will be welcomed by travel operators including ferry companies and the cross-Channel Eurostar train service, and in particular by British skiers, thousands of whom have booked holidays in Alpine ski resorts.
748
Private hospital operators including Spire Healthcare and Circle Health will receive between £225m and £525m from NHS England under a deal struck this week to maintain services and ensure the health service does not become overwhelmed as cases of the Omicron Covid variant surge.
749
UKHSA modelling based on data before the rise of Omicron suggests that 31% of people remain infectious five days after the onset of Covid symptoms or a positive Covid test.
750
However, Morrison again rebuffed calls from small businesses and unions for free rapid antigen tests in the workplace, and industries including general retail and hospitality have been excluded from the relaxed regime.
751
Most of the severe disease caused by Omicron has occurred in this group of people.
New variants may emerge from mutations in Omicron or other variants that are still in circulation.
752
Sources inside Sydney’s Villawood detention centre say a Covid-19 outbreak inside the facility is rampant, with growing infection numbers across compounds.
753
Rapid Proof, a Melbourne-based online retailer, told customers on Tuesday it could no longer supply Hough brand tests because the company “could not meet supply”.
754
” The health minister, Yvette D’ath, said border restrictions were becoming “less important by the day”.
Another 530 people with Covid-19 are in hospital wards.
755
” Staff with Covid at the nurse’s hospital who had previously been required to isolate for 14 days, with tests every three days, had now been reduced to seven days’ isolation.
756
The highly transmissible Omicron variant has seen mini-Nightingale-style wards open at a number of NHS hospitals in Greater Manchester, with the Royal Oldham understood to be facing significant pressure.
757
The shift to rapid testing has come amid increasing uncertainty around the reliability of Covid case numbers in NSW, after the government removed the requirement for people who tested positive with a rapid test to also receive a PCR test.
758
Gill Walton, the chief executive of the RCM, warned Javid that his insistence on mandatory vaccination has “opened a Pandora’s box of unforeseen consequences”.
759
In a brief statement as prime minister’s questions kicked off, Johnson said that he joined the 20 May event for about 25 minutes from around 6pm, saying that, with the No 10 garden being used as “an extension of the office” amid lockdown, he believed it was a work event.
760
She also posted short videos documenting her daily life in lockdown on WeChat, which show her date cooking meals for her, doing household chores, and working on his laptop while she sleeps, according to clips published by local Chinese media.
761
She said opening up was a “double edged sword” and businesses in the area were better off during the lockdowns when they were getting some financial support, even if it was minimal.
762
“Some people self-managing at home may find it useful to record their symptoms daily, which can help show if a person’s condition is worsening.” “Now is a good time to prepare a Covid-safe plan should you or a household member get Covid and be isolating for a period of time.
763
They saw the surge in case numbers once Australia opened up coming and in October asked the federal government to make rapid antigen tests free for small and medium sized businesses to test their staff.
764
Labor says the federal government’s management of the aged care sector has been “diabolical”, with Covid outbreaks in at least 495 aged care homes nationally and a shortage of rapid antigen tests.
765
On Wednesday, Attal said he had said at the time that the new rules were introduced that “if we continued to see the same situation, that is the Omicron variant becoming dominant in France, of course would continue to ease the restrictions.”
“Snow conditions in the Alps are near perfect and we expect demand for holidays to be very high over the next few weeks,” he added.
766
These rules have been extended to the Bundestag, requiring MPs who are not vaccinated and have no medical exemption, to sit in the public gallery above the plenary hall, as long as they have an official negative test result.
767
National cabinet will consider the changes to isolation requirements on Thursday, and will look to relax isolation rules for other areas deemed essential services, beyond frontline health workers and those in the food manufacturing and distribution sectors.
768
‘Omicron has played out worse than anyone expected’
“Omicron has played out worse than anyone expected.
“We have people that haven’t been able to work for two years.
769
“These figures continue to show the high demand for workers from businesses emerging from lockdowns, together with ongoing labour shortages, particularly in lower-paying industries,” Jarvis said.
770
In a separate email the official wrote: “If we establish a precedent whereby people who have no ability to fly find themselves at a place where there is a [navy] vessel, that is heading for [New Zealand], with available space and medical staff on board, I can live with that.”
771
Asked about the impact of the latest reports about UK government rule-breaking on Scotland’s public health messages, Sturgeon said that “people across the country are aghast at the revelations about Downing Street’s conduct”.
772
A health department spokesperson said state and territory governments were responsible for workplace and environmental safety in schools and other workplaces, and that “some jurisdictional governments have been undertaking work to improve the ventilation in schools”.
773
Whilst we would advocate they don’t wait, I know that some will nevertheless make that decision, and I respect that,” Hunt said.
774
Earlier in the pandemic, amid PPE shortages for healthcare workers, the public was encouraged to wear reusable cloth masks or surgical masks, while P2/N95 respirators were not recommended for community use.
775
Of the deaths registered in the last week of December in England and Wales, 582 mentioned Covid, or 6.9% of all deaths, a decrease on the previous week when there were 852 deaths, or 6.5% of deaths in the week to Christmas Eve.
776
You know whether you were present.
Your team will know whether you were present.
The dozens who gathered that day know whether you were present.
777
One senior police source with close knowledge of the regulations said the May 2020 gathering in the garden of No 10 organised by the prime minister’s aide was a clear breach of the regulations in force at the time.
778
Bishop, who has sold CDs and watches on Barnsley market for a decade, said the news would embolden people to drop their guard against Covid, just as the region’s infection rate passes the peak of the Omicron wave in London: “People aren’t wearing masks like they used to.
779
A Department for Transport spokesperson said: “We have provided unprecedented levels of funding for the bus sector during the pandemic, including the £1.5bn coronavirus bus service support grant and the ongoing £226.5m made available under the bus recovery grant.
780
After the news about the Reynolds email, the party sent out a list of times when Johnson told MPs in the Commons, amid earlier allegations, that he had been assured that all Covid rules were followed.
781
Eddie Hughes, the minister for rough sleeping, said councils could use part of the government’s £28m protect and vaccinate scheme to incentivise vaccinations for those on the streets, in the first scheme of its kind in the UK.
782
It said the recommended minimum of six full days in the UK was counted from the onset of symptoms, while in the US, the five-day isolation began from the day of a positive test, which could be several days after the first symptoms.
783
Heathrow airport has said at least 600,000 passengers cancelled their travel plans from the airport in December because of Omicron, warning aviation would take years to recover from the pandemic.
784
“Any absence of eggs in stores is a result of disruptions to supermarket staffing and logistics, and not a reflection of continuity of supply,” said Rowan McMonnies, managing director of Australian Eggs.
785
NSW Ambulance experienced an all time peak in demand 1 January, when 5,120 triple zero calls were received, and the service has been urging residents to only call in emergencies.
786
Staff shortages during the current Omicron case surge are proving more disruptive than during the height of the Delta wave, Australia’s businesses warn as they plead for greater access to rapid antigen tests and a unified message from governments.
787
The Pharmacy Guild of Australia is also reporting that very high demand is putting “pressure on supplies” for its members and that “some pharmacies have reported deliveries being less than they ordered, or deliveries being delayed”.
788
“Gold Coast remains a hotspot, they had an additional 23 admissions to their wards yesterday … a typical hospital ward is somewhere between 20 to 30 patients,” Gerrard said.
789
The CDC on Monday elevated its travel recommendation to “level four: very high” for Canada, telling Americans they should avoid travel to its northern neighbour.
790
NHS England has struck a deal with private healthcare providers under which their hospitals will be ready to start treating NHS patients who cannot get the Covid or non-Covid care they need because their local NHS hospital is under too much pressure.
791
Police forces were actively reminding the public to adhere to the rule, a challenge given 20 May 2020 was the hottest day of the year so far.
792
Hospitals in England will be able to use private hospitals and staff under a deal with the NHS to maintain services as Omicron cases surge, avoiding delays in treatment for patients with illnesses such as cancer.
793
Pupils use Oak’s resources for remote learning while off ill or self-isolating and schools are able to use online lessons when teachers are absent.
794
The number of Covid patients in hospital in England and Scotland has continued to increase, according to newly reported figures, as the UK reported 142,224 Covid cases on Monday – the first rise in six days.
795
Aged care providers warned the federal government in November last year that widespread rapid antigen testing was needed to protect vulnerable people in care, as the sector says tests are in short supply and face crucial delivery delays.
796
The potential closures come after a tough few years for high street retailers, after a string of high street lockdowns that have accelerated the shift to online shopping.
797
The former UK politician Nigel Farage, who is in Belgrade with the Djokovic family, tweeted his satisfaction after judge Anthony Kelly quashed the Australian government’s decision to cancel the player’s visa, describing it as “a huge win for @DjokerNole this morning”.
798
Protesters opposed to Covid regulations pelted a French MP with seaweed and stones outside his home in the overseas territory of St-Pierre-et-Miquelon at the weekend.
799
I’m absolutely gobsmacked,” Anderson said, adding that other abattoirs had just closed their doors when affected by Covid, rather than risking spreading the virus further.
800
The spring festival, when east Asia celebrates the lunar new year, is typically the biggest holiday of the year with hundreds of millions of people travelling across the region to see family.
801
The prime minister, Scott Morrison, says the economy is “obviously” taking a hit from the Omicron wave of the pandemic, while Labor is warning that mismanaging health outcomes will make the situation worse.
802
The prime minister Scott Morrison on Monday said his government would not be distributing any rapid antigen testing kits to pharmacies as part of the concessional scheme, and that instead he expects chemists to source supplies themselves to meet the additional demand.
803
New Zealand received its first shipment of Pfizer’s paediatric vaccine only at the weekend, and intends to begin child vaccinations from 17 January, despite some comparable countries beginning their child vaccine rollout late last year.
804
A three-year-old with a rare genetic condition has become the youngest person to die in New South Wales after contracting Covid-19, as the state government considers fines for people who do not register positive rapid antigen tests through a new app to be released this week.
805
The UK government is warning that almost all pregnant women admitted to hospital with Covid symptoms were unvaccinated in one analysis over several months last year, as it kicks off an advertising campaign encouraging expectant mothers to get boosted.
806
Furniture retailer Ikea has cut sick pay for unvaccinated UK staff who are forced to self-isolate because of close contact with someone with Covid-19, it has emerged.
807
A combined total of 35,499,486 booster and third doses have also been given, a day-on-day rise of 225,541.
Separate totals for booster and third doses are not available.
808
What is the case for making Covid vaccines mandatory?
Certainly, I don’t think we should be thinking about mandating or making a vaccine compulsory.”
809
The start of the Queensland school year has been delayed by two weeks and essential workers can now leave Covid self-isolation if they are in key roles, the state government has announced.
810
Perrottet said from mid-week, citizens would be able to use the Service NSW app to record their rapid antigen test (RAT) results to connect positive cases to care, as already occurs in Victoria.
811
One of Victoria’s largest public hospitals, the Alfred, predicts as many as 15% of its staff may be unavailable because of Covid with the Omicron wave expected to last for up to another eight weeks.
812
In the past seven days alone, 1,227,288 people have tested positive, according to official figures, marking more than a 10% rise on the week before.
813
Anti-vaccine protesters rallied in cities across France on Saturday, denouncing President Emmanuel Macron’s intent to “piss off” people refusing Covid-19 shots by tightening curbs on their civil liberties.
814
“The thing that might happen in the future is you may see the emergence of a new variant that is less severe, and ultimately, in the long term, what happens is Covid becomes endemic and you have a less severe version.
815
New Covid cases surged above 100,000 per day nationally for the first time, with Victoria reporting 51,356 new cases and nine deaths, New South Wales 45,098 cases and nine deaths, Queensland 11,174 cases and two deaths, and South Australia 4,274 cases and five deaths.
816
Staff at the hospital serving tourist mecca Byron Bay in northern New South Wales say the facility is under “extreme strain”, with Covid-positive patients left in bays behind curtains and one patient waiting 45 hours to be transported to the region’s designated Covid hospital.
817
Marble Arch Mound, the scaffolding-and-turf urban peak that stood 25m tall, came with a £6m price tag and claimed the scalp of Westminster council’s deputy leader, will close on Sunday.
818
Regardless of the cost debate, the critical problem Australia currently faces is that there are no rapid antigen tests left to sell, let alone give away.
819
PCR tests take too long for the results, a five-year-old cannot wait in a queue and no rapid tests are available.
Turn public testing centres into field hospitals.
820
“I don’t want it, if I get sick, I will use bush medicine,” he says.
“I don’t want to use white man’s medicine, the bush will look after me.
I will go the bush if Covid comes to Derby.” ‘Please come and get your jab’
Allow Facebook content?
To view this content, click 'Allow and continue'.
Allow and continue
821
“The booster is an extra level of protection that would give you assurance over and above wearing a mask and socially distancing,” he says – although you should wear a mask and socially distance too.
822
Concord hospital, which earlier this week told staff to expect Covid patient numbers to triple, informed them on Friday “to discharge any patients we could”, another senior doctor told Guardian Australia.
823
“Even if the majority of people will get Covid mildly and recover quickly, there remains an important minority who despite being relatively healthy will still get Covid severely, with hospitalisation and admission to intensive care.”
824
Aside from not capturing a true figure for new infections, the lowering of standards for collecting Australia’s Covid data will have flow-on effects on the country’s pandemic experience, says Juliette O’Brien, the data journalist who created covid19data.com.au.
825
Javid, who has already imposed the requirement on staff working in care homes in England, believes that compulsory jabs for NHS staff will help keep patients safe and reduce the number of people who contract Covid while in hospital.
826
New data from Public Health Scotland (PHS) based on sampling in NHS Grampian and Greater Glasgow and Clyde (NHS GGC) shows the proportion of Covid-positive patients in hospitals who were admitted for another reason is higher than when the Delta variant was dominant last year.
“This may mean that infections are no longer increasing among these age groups, but is currently too early to suggest if this is a continuing change in trend,” the ONS said.
827
Dozens of senior officials and legislators in Hong Kong have been sent into a 21-day quarantine after they attended a birthday party despite the government’s own pandemic warning.
828
Growth in the UK construction industry slowed in December as the impact of Omicron offset gains for building firms from fading supply chain disruption.
829
The NHS Confederation said this week that some trusts had recently had as many as 750 staff off sick as a result of Covid or other illnesses and that at one trust, 270 of the 413 personnel on sick leave last Friday were a direct result of Covid.
830
Joanna Casson, a registered nurse who is no longer able to visit her 81-year-old mother at her Teesside nursing home after an outbreak started after Christmas, said: “Everyone needs more than just the medical side of care.
831
It is nearly two years since a Covid outbreak when the ship docked in Sydney resulting in over 900 infections and 28 deaths.
832
I have the common symptoms and am isolating with my family,” he said.
Like thousands of Australians, I tested positive today to COVID-19.
833
Under the worst-case scenario, which is consistent with what has been seen in New York, 6,000 people are predicted to be hospitalised with Covid at the peak and 600 ICU beds to be occupied by Covid patients.
834
“We don’t want to get to a stage where we’re destroying food in a farm, at a paddock, because we can’t get it to the supermarket and Australians go the supermarket and there’s not food on shelves.”
A spokesman for Cash said on Thursday that the Morrison government “will work with state and territory governments to provide clarity to employers on rapid antigen testing requirements under WHS [work health and safety] laws”.
835
On Friday, as NSW recorded almost 39,000 new cases (with real numbers likely to be significantly higher), Perrottet announced some “precautionary measures” to allow people to “continue to live with Covid”.
836
This is true in regional New South Wales and Victoria, and is trending that way in Queensland.
We have excluded overseas, interstate and cases where the origin is unknown.
837
The NSW government is introducing a new reporting system for rapid antigen tests.
The government has also paused all non-urgent elective surgeries, to help reduce the pressure on the health system.
838
“Staff absence on the first day of term was considerable and school leaders have been doing what they can to redeploy teachers and other support staff to avoid being forced to combine classes or send groups home,” Whiteman said.
839
But those seeking £500 Covid support payments for isolation will still need to get PCR tests because of government concerns about potential fraudulent claims if people are allowed to claim the support payments based on self-reported lateral flows.
840
Dr Elysia Thornton-Benko, a GP with Bondi Road Doctors, said her clinic received an email from the federal government’s vaccine operations centre on 23 December, advising that the first shipments would be delayed until sometime next week due to “unprecedented demand”.
841
Djokovic has become something of a flashpoint among the Australian public over the sense that different sets of rules apply to powerful or famous people.
842
The results show higher resilience to Covid in countries where the stringency of government interventions increased from a low background level in the face of a new wave of Covid, and the level of trust in each other was high – in other words there was a strong “social contract”.
843
Cases have also been detected in other parts of Cape York and in the Torres Strait.
But now we’ve already got cases in the Torres Strait and we’ve got cases in Cape York.
844
A spokeswoman said it is continuing to monitor high risk patients remotely and provide advice for local public health measures. “Metro North Health will continue to support Norfolk Island as required, with medical evacuations to the mainland set to continue if needed.”
845
” “In this epidemiological scenario, in addition to use for public health investigation purposes, this technology (rapid antigen tests) may prove useful as a screening test for individuals in high risk settings … where the pre-test probability is high,” the advice states.
846
“We are in a chaotic state, we all know that, with Omicron, on so many fronts, and this is one more front,” she told Guardian Australia.
847
The senior NSW medical official said the whole national and state policy relied on the assumption high Covid vaccination rates would mean there wouldn’t be “a serious rise in hospital admissions due to Covid”.
848
The data comes as the latest weekly Flu and Covid-19 Surveillance report from the UK Health Security Agency revealed that Covid case rates rose considerably in England between 27 December 2021 and 2 January 2022, particularly in the north-east and among white ethnic groups.
849
EasyJet said there were almost three times as many flights bought in the UK in the hours following the prime minister’s announcement on Wednesday than in the same period the week before, while holiday firm TUI said there had been “an immediate and strong uptick in bookings”.
850
Experts previously raised concerns that countries including the UK could face a difficult winter with flu and Covid in circulation.
851
In October, the government put an end to free Covid tests for unvaccinated people, but the new legislation goes a step further in requiring people to be fully vaccinated to access such places.
852
More than one in six NHS trusts across England have declared a critical incident due to Covid pressures, a cabinet minister has revealed, saying the Omicron variant was putting “very real” pressure on the health service.
853
A spokesman for Cash said the Morrison government “will work with state and territory governments to provide clarity to employers on rapid antigen testing requirements under WHS [work health and safety] laws”.
854
Chinese hospital officials have been fired after a pregnant woman lost her baby after she was denied entry at a Xi’an hospital due to coronavirus lockdown restrictions.
855
Bupa closed the 144-bed facility to all visitors at this point, however cases have steadily risen, and have since spread between the home’s separate “communities” on different floors of the complex.
856
“In the eyes of the health department, you have Covid,” said the state’s acting chief health officer, Prof Ben Cowie, of those people who test positive using a rapid test.
857
Mark Morgan, professor of general practice at Bond University and chair of the college’s expert committee on quality care, said GPs were “crying out” for clear clinical pathways to use the treatment.
“To be effective, it has to be given in the first five days [after symptoms appear], and there all sorts of problems with getting tested and finding out if your symptoms are from Covid or not because people can’t access the PCR or rapid antigen tests,” he said.
858
Morrison also read part of a letter sent by the health minister, Greg Hunt, to Tennis Australia in November making clear that a previous infection was not grounds for quarantine-free entry into Australia.
859
There are reports Djokovic’s lawyers will challenge the decision.
“I understand why they may be frustrated with the decision.
It’s not my decision.
860
He said a “false sense of perfection” on testing sensitivity and an unnecessarily complicated maze of rules prevented Canada from acquiring the rapid self-tests the country would have needed to slow the spread of Omicron.
861
Two entrepreneurs with no apparent background in healthcare have made £20m – and could make tens of millions more – after landing roles as middlemen between the UK government and a US firm that won £3.7bn of contracts to supply lateral flow tests.
862
Tim Alderslade, the chief executive of the industry body Airlines UK, said: “This is a hugely welcome move at a critical time in the booking season for passengers, and will provide a massive boost to those wanting to travel abroad or come to the UK this year.
863
Almost 60% of over-12s have had their booster or third dose.
People need to wait 28 days after testing positive to be eligible for vaccination.
864
The results reveal infection levels in England differ by age and region although they have risen across the board: levels were highest in those aged from school year 12 to 24 years old, at about one in 10 people in this age group.
865
For Phil Johnson, the licensee of Aireys Pub, keeping the hotel open seven days a week at what should be peak season has instead become a “day-by-day proposition”.
866
An analysis of registers published by the TGA shows 26 suppliers of rapid antigen or lateral flow tests are currently approved to sell tests for use in point of care settings, but not for home use.
867
had to source its own triage tent, is sending Covid tests six hours away due to a lack of space for its own diagnosis machine, and has had positive patients wait 30 hours to be transferred to a designated hospital for those with the virus.
868
A crucial parliamentary debate on introducing a proposed Covid-19 “vaccine pass” for entry to areas such museums and long-distance trains was to resume on Wednesday afternoon.
869
Christmas spending pushed total grocery sales to £11.7bn in the four weeks to 26 December – just 0.2% below the record established at the end of 2020, when supermarket sales benefited while pubs and restaurants were closed because of Covid restrictions.
870
HC-One, the largest private care home provider, said 869 staff – about 4% of the workforce – were off with either a positive test or awaiting results, while about 500 residents had tested positive, or 3%.
871
Ministers in England and in Wales cut self-isolation to a week in December after deciding the impact of extended self-isolation on public services and businesses was not outweighed by Omicron’s risk to health and critical care services.
In a recalled session of the Scottish parliament, where she faced heavy criticism over the quality of NHS data in Scotland, Sturgeon said adults could end their self-isolation after seven days if they had no fever and had two negative lateral flow tests.
872
CrossCountry has cut about 50 trains a day, while Southern will not run trains to its normal London terminus, Victoria, for the rest of the week.
873
Anti-fogging sprays and cloths often used to prevent condensation on eyeglasses from wearing a mask or on face shields may contain high levels of potentially toxic PFAS “forever chemicals”, according to a new study led by Duke University.
874
Lateral flow test results already feed into official daily Covid case numbers and, in England, represented almost a third of reported cases on 31 December.
875
Dismissing growing calls for universal free access to rapid antigen tests (RATs), the prime minister, Scott Morrison, said national cabinet had agreed to provide the tests to concession card-holders through the national pharmacy network.
876
The decision to grant Novak Djokovic an exemption from Covid-19 vaccination requirements to play in the Australian Open in Melbourne has been labelled “appalling”, with some players expressing surprise at the late decision.
877
Local officials are often punished or fired for alleged failures in outbreak prevention, including two senior Communist party officials in Xi’an who were removed from their posts over their “insufficient rigour in preventing and controlling the outbreak”.
878
At one Barchester home in Shrewsbury 17 staff are off and 22 residents have tested positive while at a home in east London 27 staff are off and 20 residents have tested positive.
879
“Today’s attempt to distract from his ongoing failure to make rapid antigen tests free and accessible for all Australians proves that prime minister Scott Morrison still doesn’t get it,” said the Australian Council of Trade Unions acting secretary, Liam O’Brien.
880
Shoppers reported shortages of fresh fruit and vegetables, meat, and other products including toilet paper.
881
As rapid antigen tests become increasingly hard to come by and PCR testing queues report hours-long waiting times, the Monash University infectious disease modeller Dr Michael Lydeamore said it was unlikely government statistics were capturing the magnitude of the outbreak.
882
Last month the rules on self-isolation in England changed to reduce the self-isolation period from 10 to seven days for people who have tested positive for Covid, provided they have a negative lateral flow test on both day six and seven and they do not have a high temperature.
883
About 100,000 workers in key industries in England will be told to take Covid tests on every working day to catch infections early and avoid the virus spreading to colleagues, Boris Johnson has said.
884
The Guardian understands the UKHSA is planning to include reinfections in case data from the end of the month, though Pagel – who is not involved with the dashboard –said the task is not simple.
885
The official figures continue to be affected by disruption over Christmas and the new year, with Tuesday’s data for Northern Ireland covering a four-day period, and for Wales covering a two-day period.
886
“Individual consular cases remain at the pre-pandemic level of about 1,200 cases active (or open) on any given day: comprising approximately 350 welfare cases, 170 deaths, 240 arrests and 240 prisoners.
887
Perhaps the best known example to most Australians, the UK government offers people access to free self-administered rapid antigen tests through the National Health Service.
888
Michelle Rosentreter, an ICU nurse at another major metropolitan Sydney hospital and also a NSW Nurses and Midwives Association delegate, said emergency departments had become the “Covid frontline”.
889
Head teachers raised concerns about the supply of lateral flow tests after an email from the Department for Education (DfE) received on Tuesday morning said orders for additional tests should be placed by 5pm the same day in order to secure deliveries next week.
890
“Last night we saw a form of irresponsible friendship being formed with the MPs of La France Insoumise, the Rassemblement National and LR to derail the timetable for the adoption of the vaccine pass,” Attal told France Inter radio.
891
A No 10 source confirmed there was a prioritisation plan drawn up but said there was no plan for imminent implementation, saying they believed the plans for testing was robust, despite widespread difficulties with home deliveries and pharmacy supplies of lateral flow tests.
892
“We’ve now begun to heavily rely on antigen testing which I think makes sense when we have such big numbers, and the shortage of antigen tests is a real problem at the moment, and I think also access to those tests really has to be free
893
— Eliza Barr (@ElizaJBarr) January 4, 2022 Instagram account @bondi_lines, which previously posted wait times for popular nightlife spots in the beachside suburb, has started posting testing clinic wait times, as well as advice on where people can find rapid antigen tests.
894
Gavrielatos said schools were already heavily disrupted in 2021, when far fewer cases circulated in the state, with an average of about 40 schools a day affected by staff or students testing positive.
895
Hyde said she contacted Queensland Health about the discrepancy, but they could not explain why international travellers required longer isolation, even when they were vaccinated and had returned negative tests.
896
Since 2018 Mei, his colleague Cai Wei, and Cai’s partner – surnamed Tang – had been archiving articles about issues including #MeToo and migrant rights, and reposting them whenever they were deleted from China’s strictly monitored and censored online platforms.
897
The Employment Relations Authority said the matter should be resolved as quickly as possible by the court – rather than going through the authority’s sometimes lengthy and potentially more costly process – due to the high public interest in their commentary.
898
The federal Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, said Morrison was ultimately responsible for the lack of supply.
It’s happening in the UK, it’s happening in the USA, it works,” Minns said.
899
The state’s chief health officer, John Gerrard, said that of the more than 25,000 active cases in Queensland only 11 people were in intensive care, with two on ventilators.
900
Watching physical health Care guidelines are changing as states and territories respond to the Omicron outbreak, but public health advice is fairly consistent.
901
Cases were up 50% in the week from 28 December and 3 January compared with the week before.
Monday’s figures for Wales and Northern Ireland will be updated after the bank holiday.
902
“The reason it matters when it peaks – and particularly when cases peak in the over-50s – is it’s likely that a week later we’ll see the peak in hospitalisations, and roughly two weeks later, we’ll see a peak in the number of deaths.
903
But a tense debate in parliament on Monday highlighted what the government and the opposition described as widespread fatigue with the pandemic and measures to tackle it.
904
A spokesperson for Enfield council said: “Despite very challenging circumstances, Enfield council continued to deliver an uninterrupted bin collection service throughout the festive period.
905
He added: “We run care homes.
The reports suggest care home outbreaks in England are likely to jump sharply, from 250 as of 19 December, in the next UK Health and Security Agency figures.
906
University of Sydney’s Prof Robert Booy, who is also a director of the Immunisation Coalition, said T-cells were an “important backup” to antibodies because they recognise different parts of viruses to produce a response to entire cells, not just their proteins.
907
“What we are seeing now is federal and state governments warning all businesses they could be losing 10 to 25% of their staff, to a period of time when they’re Covid-positive and can’t come into work,” Sadler said.
908
Guardian Australia has been contacted by multiple nurses working across several hospitals in the state who are alarmed at finding themselves working alongside Covid-positive colleagues, as 2,500 health workers are in isolation across NSW.
909
The company has been approached by the Guardian but a UK spokesperson told the Times it had closed on 25 December until 28 December, and distribution had resumed on 29 December “when the majority of community pharmacies reopened”.
910
He told Sky News: “The priority is to keep schools open.
He said the NHS was used to dealing with staff being off over the winter and during “big flu viruses”.
911
Many people turned their hand to improving their cooking skills, and admissions data showed that 2,243 needed to be admitted after coming into contact with hot drinks, food, fats and cooking oils.
912
Hospitals in NSW are much closer to capacity due to surging Covid cases than is being admitted by officials, warn doctors and nurses, with one saying the system has “never been this bad”.
913
When I landed in Melbourne, I got a test that was negative and I was meant to do a final test, and that was positive,” Mazzone said.
914
In Victoria, the health minister, Martin Foley, said residents can expect more rapid antigen tests to be made available in the “coming days”, after the government announced it had secured 34m kits in late December.
915
Queensland’s chief health officer has said “all of us are going to be exposed” to Covid-19 in the coming weeks, as concerns mount about increasing case numbers in the state’s remote Indigenous communities.
916
Robert Etheridge, also known as DJ Dimension, arrived in New Zealand on 16 December and spent seven days in one of the country’s managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities, where he returned three negative Covid test results, Stuff reported.
917
“The government has told people to not go and get tested, but to test themselves with a rapid antigen test that isn’t available, and that isn’t affordable.
918
“I want to give my personal thanks to everyone who has given up their time to help us beat record after record – continuing to make the NHS Covid-19 vaccination programme the biggest and most successful in health service history.
919
Daily case numbers refer to cases by date reported, only cover infections picked up by testing and do not include reinfections – although the Guardian understands these may be included from the end of January – meaning the true number of infections will be higher still.
920
As the positivity rate in Australia has climbed, some have pointed to the World Health Organization’s declaration that a positivity rate of 5% and under is evidence of spread that is under control.
921
On Saturday it was announced that secondary school pupils in England should return to wearing masks in classrooms, not just communal areas, a measure already in place in the other countries of the UK.
922
Economists have warned that inflation could push up the deficit by more than expected over the coming months, due to higher payments on inflation-linked debt as rising interest rates pushing up servicing costs for the government.
923
It was a huge success – protecting millions of jobs, keeping businesses open, making the reopening smoother and quicker and making sure families all over the UK could pay their bills.
924
Some of the farm animals have already been sold.
“I thought it would be me and my mum shouting in a room, but we had 1,000 Facebook members in less than a month.
925
They signify a failure of public health policy Professor Mark Woolhouse, Edinburgh University
They signify a failure of public health policy,” he states.
926
The fall in testing follows frequent urging from the NSW government for people not to line up for PCR tests unless they have symptoms or have been deemed a close contact.
927
All pupils in secondary schools in England should return to wearing masks in classrooms, ministers said last night, as fears grew that the new term could trigger a huge spike in cases of the Omicron variant.
928
Chris Hopson, the chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents health trusts, said staff were working “flat out” and that the NHS was under “arguably more pressure” than this time last year.
929
Whatever the cost, China is likely to push extremely hard to keep the virus under control for most of this year, ahead of two high-profile, high-stakes events.
930
Brown agreed.
He said: “We were a bit more careful before but the Omicron variant isn’t supposed to be as bad, so I think it’s worth the risk.”
931
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, if you’ve tested positive or have symptoms, you can now stop self-isolating after seven days, instead of 10, if you get two negative lateral flow test results on days six and seven.
932
The record-breaking wave of the Omicron Covid variant will, however, “test the limits of finite NHS capacity even more than a typical winter”, Sajid Javid said, as hospital admissions in England climbed to their highest since last January.
933
Doctors say a decision to exempt health workers in New South Wales from self-isolating if they are close contacts reflects an “extremely desperate situation”, with warnings the policy change will increase the Covid risk to hospital patients.
934
“Our members want the NSW premier and health minister to admit the current situation in our hospitals is dire and call on the public not to abuse health staff as the system struggles under increased demand,” Holmes said.
935
Boyle said “overwhelmingly” patients took up phone consultations as video added a “layer of complexity” and wasn’t an option for many – notably older people and others with limited access to technology and reliable internet in regional and rural Australia.
936
The “appalling” scale of abuse, intimidation and threatening behaviour directed at the UK government’s scientific and medical advisers has been laid bare in a Guardian survey of experts working on the pandemic.
937
What particularly upset me about this email was that it wasn’t sent to me, but to a junior member of my team.
The spelling really is shocking.
938
The “appalling” scale of abuse, intimidation and threatening behaviour directed at the UK government’s scientific and medical advisers has been laid bare in a Guardian survey of experts working on the pandemic.
939
NHS England also revealed there were 2,370 hospital admissions with Covid in England on 29 December, a 90% week-on-week increase and the highest daily total since 29 January.
940
UK regulators have approved Pfizer’s “life-saving” antiviral drug Paxlovid, which boasts nearly 90% success in preventing severe illness among vulnerable adults if taken soon after becoming infected with Covid-19.
941
For now, it is still more affordable for many of Beauchamp Laundry’s customers to bring in damp clothes and linen to be tumble dried during the winter than to run their own dryers at home, Pariera says.
942
Bars and nightclubs were forced to close from Christmas Day and outdoor gatherings have been limited to 10 people on New Year’s Eve in Portugal, while in Finland bars and restaurants in many regions will have to close at 6pm and limit numbers.
943
Infection levels also rose in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland in the most recent week, with the latest estimates suggesting that for all three countries about one in 40 people had Covid in the week ending 23 December.
944
A month later, the WHO said again that all theories on the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak were “on the table”, and urged Chinese scientists to carry out their own investigations.
945
The surge in staff sickness led Matthew Taylor, the chief executive of the NHS Confederation, to warn that “the NHS is facing a perfect storm of Covid hospital admissions and illness rising at a very alarming rate alongside increasing numbers of frontline workers being off sick”.
946
Hundreds of daily train services across England, Scotland and Wales are being removed from timetables in attempt to improve reliability after weeks of cancellations at short notice, according to rail firms.
The company is not operating any trains between Aberdeen and Edinburgh; Glasgow Central and Edinburgh; Derby and Nottingham; Peterborough and Stansted; Cheltenham Spa and Cardiff Central; Newton Abbot and Paignton; and Plymouth and Penzance.
947
The rapid spread of the new variant means the prime minister may have to introduce “tighter restrictions, at real speed” to reduce the number of people falling ill with Covid.
948
A huge number of people in England are not turning up for their Covid vaccine appointments, health leaders have said, saying as many as 40% of bookings are missed.
949
son came back from school with Covid symptoms at the end of term,” said Daniel Lewis in Pontypridd, Wales who is self-isolating until 5 January after a positive PCR test.
950
The fire, which broke out during a protest at the entrance to the building on Thursday, caused extensive damage to the doors and portico.
951
In NSW, where cases almost doubled on Friday for the third day running, jumping from 12,226 to 21,151, the premier, Dominic Perrottet, said he expected the “main set” of 50m of rapid antigen tests his government had ordered to arrive in mid-January.
952
“There will no longer be a requirement for people coming across the border to do a rapid antigen test prior to coming into South Australia,” Marshall said.
953
Michael Lydeamore, an infectious disease modeller at Monash University said tests were probably catching about 80% of actual cases, meaning NSW will already be at the 25,000 cases a day rate flagged by health minister Brad Hazzard on 15 December.
954
Indigenous health groups have lambasted national cabinet’s move to narrow the definition of a close contact as the “wrong decision”, amid concern over the possibility of outbreaks in remote communities with comparatively low vaccination rates.
955
The AHPPC said there was “still risk of transmission based on the nature of exposure for other contacts (such as in social, educational or workplace settings) who have had less extensive exposure to a case than household-like contacts”.
956
However, on Friday the health ministry said that “regarding the Omicron border case announced on Wednesday, microbiologists have advised that the risk of transmission from this case is low”.
957
“We’re saying to companies, submit your data, show us, but we can’t formally make an approval decision until we get a signal from the government,” Skerritt said at the time.
958
The vaccines minister, Maggie Throup, said: “We have now offered all eligible adults in England a Covid-19 booster – a triumph for the NHS and the vaccination programme.
959
Britain is in an “incomparably better” position in the fight against Covid than it was at the end of 2020, Boris Johnson has said in his new year’s message, while Keir Starmer stressed his belief in a brighter future but said the virus remained a real threat.
960
Confirmed daily Covid cases in the UK hit yet another high on Thursday, with 189,213 reported in the past 24 hours, while the number of people in hospital and deaths have also risen, data reveals.
961
If they tested positive for Covid, they would be required to isolate for seven to 10 days, depending on staffing conditions.
962
“The code has a public health requirement for crossing external borders, but there’s a derogation for those holding a residence permit from a member state and in transit, unless they are subject to a national entry ban of the state they are crossing.”
963
He said the German government’s expert council – a group including virologists, psychologists and sociologists – was working on a plan to adjust the length of quarantine required.
964
The Welsh government has come to the aid of Westminster by loaning England 4m lateral flow Covid-19 tests, as ministers scramble to secure supplies from around the world.
965
” Elizabeth Brogan, a nursing lecturer at University of Technology Sydney says online teaching also makes it difficult for relationships to develop between students, which could in turn prevent them from acquiring the skills they should gain from their time at university.
966
Despite that, though, an expression-of-interest form for businesses circulated by the NSW government suggests it is still considering reimbursing businesses for test kits if they are provided free to residents.
967
The Met Office said on Thursday there was a good chance of the UK experiencing the warmest New Year’s Eve on record, beating the current high of 14.8C in Colwyn Bay, north Wales, in 2011.
968
Though Omicron has driven the increase in cases – by last week it accounted for about 80% of all Covid infections in NSW – the end of Covid zero had long been mooted.
969
Sales fell 6% compared with a year earlier to £36m, according to accounts filed for Victoria Beckham Holdings (VBH), which owns the former Spice Girls member’s fashion business, as well as the majority stake in her beauty range, which launched in 2019.
970
Dr Claire Steves, a senior clinical lecturer at King’s College London and member of the Zoe Covid study team, said that while the number of daily new symptomatic Covid cases was more than double what it was this time last year, the rate of increase was no longer exponential.
971
Prof Azeem Majeed, head of the department of primary care and public health at Imperial College London, also said there were not enough lateral flow tests to support the government’s policy for their “indiscriminate use”.
972
Australian health authorities on Thursday reported 21,343 new Covid cases, a new record for the country, including 12,226 infections in NSW, 5,137 in Victoria and 1,374 in South Australia.
973
OzSage said relying on individuals to self-test with rapid antigen tests and self-manage their symptoms meant governments would not have a true picture of how many cases are in the community.
974
Isolation periods for positive cases and their close contacts will also change following agreement by the national cabinet and Marshall reminded South Australians the state was no longer chasing Covid zero.
975
This means even people who can afford them and could relieve the pressure on the laboratories, simply cannot buy a RAT kit.
We are disturbed by the repeated messaging that only symptomatic people should get [PCR] tested, when 40-45% of transmissions are asymptomatic, and even in people who develop symptoms, the peak of infectiousness in the two days before symptoms begin.
976
As wards reached capacity and more people contracted Covid without getting access to hospital care, more people might die in their homes, OzSage said.
977
Weekly data published just before Christmas by the UK’s Health Security Agency shows the effectiveness of both the Pfizer and Moderna boosters against symptomatic diseases is lower for the Omicron than the Delta variant across all periods after the injection.
978
Getlink, the operator of the Channel rail link, issued an urgent warning on its website and Twitter page on Wednesday evening that appeared to confirm that the French government had changed its travel rules.
979
The new approach will ask for surge capacity to be built in the grounds of hospitals to make it easier for staff to move between new and old sites and keep patients closer to diagnostics and emergency care.
980
The average price paid for a property in the Somerset town increased by £56,546 (21.8%) to £315,759 in the 12 months to October, according to figures from the mortgage lender Halifax.
981
France has registered a national and European record for new coronavirus infections as the Omicron variant fuels a surge in cases across the continent, with multiple countries hitting new highs.
982
They added that although a pilot had ended in the summer a counter-disinformation unit still exists and “continues to work closely with social media companies to identify and remove dangerous disinformation about vaccines”.
983
Those requirements have prevented Djokovic from confirming whether he will bid for a men’s record 21st grand slam title and a 10th Australian Open crown.
984
“The federal government must urgently provide free rapid antigen testing for people with disability, especially those at risk of severe disease and those with multiple support workers,” Connor said.
985
An alternative is to look at the total number of patients admitted, not just those with Covid, with Hopson noting some trusts have not seen an overall rise in admissions.
986
According to data released by the Scottish government, 15,849 people been reported to have tested positive for Covid in the last 24 hours, the highest daily total since the start of the pandemic, surpassing the previous record of 11,030 on 26 December.
987
Fully vaccinated visitors who have been identified as close contacts interstate in the 14 days before arrival can enter NSW, but will need to self-isolate for seven days from the date of exposure.
988
However the reintroduction of indoor mask mandates and density limits in various states in recent days means that worst-case scenario models for daily cases are less likely to be reached, Lydeamore said.
989
Covid numbers rocketed on Wednesday, with the number of new cases in the nation’s most infected state, New South Wales, nearly doubling overnight, from 6,062 to 11,201.
990
Neesha Chockalingam, 21, had planned to go dancing in Sydney for New Year’s Eve, but one person in her friendship group caught Covid last week, so now they were winding it back to a small party in the park.
991
Scotland has detected a record number of 15,900 new Covid cases, with about 80% of those believed to be the highly infectious Omicron variant, Nicola Sturgeon has told MSPs.
992
A lack of lateral flow tests (LFTs) in UK pharmacies is a “huge” problem, providers have warned, as Covid lateral flow tests and PCR tests are unavailable to order from the government website for the second day, not even for essential workers.
993
Pubs, bars and restaurants missed out on more than £10,000 each in the week leading up to Christmas, figures show, as concern about the Omicron variant and government guidance to work from home ruined the crucial festive period for the second year in a row.
994
Swinney, the Scottish government’s Covid response minister, said the rate of spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 was “alarming” and rising far faster than any previous variant.
995
However, a fear of physical harm and views about how best to reduce or avoid a risk of physical harm is not a belief for the purposes of section 10.”
996
“My view is that lateral flow tests are quite a good way of marking who is infectious and who isn’t and, as you know, we’ve dropped from 10 days to seven days if you have sequential lateral flow tests.
997
“What our members are telling us is that demand for the lateral flow tests is very high at the moment due to the current guidelines around self-isolation.
998
In March 2019, there was a second disaster involving the 737 Max model when an Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed soon after takeoff from Addis Ababa, killing 157 people.
999
The NSW chief health officer, Dr Kerry Chant, said that people who are just seeking a screening test should use a rapid antigen test not a PCR test, but that people who test positive on a rapid antigen test, or who have symptoms, should still get a PCR test.
1000
“Where a RAT test would now be required rather than a PCR test, state governments, as always, responsible for securing those RAT tests, providing them to people directly, and we will share the costs of those 50-50 with the state government,” the prime minister said.
1001
Mistakes in a Sydney laboratory that led to nearly 1,000 people getting incorrect Covid test results will cause positive cases to ripple through the community, but epidemiologists say Australia’s infection rate is now so high it might not make a significant difference.
1002
“Those supplies coming towards the end of January will be available through supermarkets and pharmacies, and the supplies available in the next few days will be available through community pharmacies.
1003
Investigations are currently under way as to the source of the infection and public health officials are in the process of identifying and contacting all other known close contacts, and ensuring they isolate and get tested.
1004
The New South Wales government has told people travelling to Queensland over the holiday period not to line up for Covid-19 tests, conceding that pressures on the PCR system mean results are unlikely to be returned within the 72-hour window required to enter the sunshine state.
1005
Thousands of New Year’s Eve revellers are expected to escape strict Covid-19 restrictions in Wales by hopping across the border to visit nightspots in English towns and cities.
1006
There is no condition I know of that cannot be made worse by Covid-19 Dr Simon Clarke
“There is no condition I know of that cannot be made worse by Covid-19.”
1007
“Services are already really stretched and it won’t take a lot – either further staff absences or increasing numbers of patients needing to be seen because the hospitals are full – to really push the services over the edge,” she said.
1008
Thousands of New Year’s Eve revellers are expected to escape strict Covid-19 restrictions in Wales by hopping across the border to visit nightspots in English towns and cities.
1009
Greece and France went down the Covid passport route as early as July.
Almost 90% of over 12s have now had a first dose, 82% have their second and 56.5% are boosted.
1010
About 2,000 health workers have been furloughed across the state after being listed as close contacts, prompting NSW Health to slash the isolation time for health workers from two weeks to seven days, provided they return a negative PCR test.
1011
Pharmacies across England report having run out of test kits for distribution to the public before Christmas, and have been unable to receive additional kits as the supply chain has been disrupted by the Christmas and Boxing Day holidays.
1012
Speaking on Tuesday, Paul Hunter, a professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia, said people with Covid should eventually be allowed to “go about their normal lives” as they would with a common cold.
1013
For UK trade with the EU, exports have risen by 6%, or about £7bn, in the year to October compared with the same period in 2020, in a recovery from the worst economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
1014
Small businesses have been forced to close during the crucial summer holiday period because of the failure of state and federal governments to bring in free Covid rapid antigen tests, the sector’s peak body says.
1015
About 2,000 health workers have been furloughed across the state after being listed as close contacts, prompting NSW Health to slash the isolation time for health workers from two weeks to seven days provided they return a negative PCR test.
1016
Queues of up to eight hours for PCR testing in New South Wales have led to calls to standardise interstate testing requirements and make rapid antigen tests the norm.
1017
The England team’s support staff and their family members who tested positive after PCR tests yesterday are in isolation.
This is what the protocols are for.
1018
Castex said that the government’s planned vaccine pass – which will require proof of vaccination, not just a negative test – would take effect from 15 January, if parliament approves a draft government bill.
1019
This applies to indoor events with 500 or more attenders where people are likely to stand or move around, such as music venues, certain outdoor events, such as music festivals, and any events with 10,000 or more in attendance.
1020
This is a very, very profitable time for everyone – it’s when we make the money that gets us through January Martin Wolstencroft
1021
Covid cases in England reached a new high of 113,628 on Christmas Day and 1,281 people were admitted to hospital – the highest daily figure since mid-February.
1022
Unless he gets a grip on this quickly, he will be adding to the countless broken promises from this Government.
1023
Advice published by the TGA says the regulatory body considers phase III clinical trial data published in a peer-reviewed journal to be “baseline” evidence for a vaccine’s efficacy.
1024
While the state has recorded its highest positive test rates since the start of the pandemic, Martiniuk said it was important to keep in mind the slightly lower testing numbers over the Christmas weekend.
1025
The BBC reported those claims, not yet included in the Trump companies’ accounts, were worth between £520,000 and £1.3m, leading to a total claim for furlough funding of between £3.3m and £4.1m overall.
1026
However, cabinet sources said minds could change if there were compelling changes in the data.
“It was right that we didn’t rush last time given positive early data,” they said.
1027
A requirement to wear a medical mask, introduced almost a year ago, remains in place in shops and on public transport, as does the need to show a vaccine certificate in those venues where access is only possible for those who are vaccinated.
1028
Barton said secondary school leaders could be faced with the dilemma of prioritising classroom teaching for year groups taking exams ahead of teaching for others, “because GCSEs and A-levels really need to go ahead if possible this year”.
1029
Instead of an expected 2021 budgetary overspend of €36m, the city senate this winter announced a budget surplus of €1.09bn.
Over the next 10 years, the city hopes to create 5,000 new jobs, in part by luring companies through much lower corporate tax rates, which German municipalities are able to set themselves a multiplier on top of the federal corporate tax rate of 3.5%.
1030
The terrorism threat to the UK may have been made worse by Covid lockdowns, a security minister has suggested.
1031
“That might lead to a less severe infection.” “If you’re unlucky to get infected … because of a low viral load and on the back of already being double vaccinated, you might turn out OK.
1032
On Monday, authorities reported that three more people had died in NSW as 6,324 new Covid cases were recorded across the state.
1033
Chinese medical expert and former delegate to the National People’s Congress Zhang Boli told state media CNWest on Sunday he believed it was “entirely possible” that the outbreak would be under control by late January.
1034
The British government has “actively blocked countries in Africa and across the developing world from making their own vaccines” by opposing a waiver on intellectual property rights for Covid vaccines, the party says.
1035
But a spokesperson said: “While the pandemic has put enormous pressures on the NHS and caused waiting lists to grow, the NHS is delivering the biggest vaccination rollout in history and more than 32 million people have been given their vital booster jab.
1036
British consumers have largely stayed away from the traditional Boxing Day sales amid concern over the Omicron Covid variant, with visits to high streets, shopping centres and retail parks down more than 45% on pre-pandemic levels, according to industry figures.
1037
Scotland – from 26-27 December Restrictions begin on Boxing Day in Scotland, where indoor events are limited to 100 people standing or 200 people sitting, and outdoor events are capped at 500 people.
1038
The government said: “We are working closely with VMIC, which is a private company, and others to ensure the UK retains our strong domestic vaccine manufacturing capability to contribute to the UK’s resilience against Covid-19 and other future health emergencies.
1039
New South Wales reported 6,394 new infections on Boxing Day and 458 cases in hospital, with the health minister warning “we’re all going to get Omicron” and the Australia-wide tally reaching almost 10,000 cases.
1040
In Scotland, large events will have one-metre physical distancing and will be limited to 100 people standing indoors, 200 people sitting indoors and 500 people outdoors from Boxing Day.
1041
“Those initial jabs lay the foundation for the booster jab to protect against Omicron, two doses is not enough and you need to build protection jab by jab and once eligible get boosted now,” he said.
1042
Zahra said he expected total sales to exceed last year because people could or would not spend their money on overseas travel during the Covid pandemic.
1043
Those volunteers are extraordinary people, especially the crews of the RNLI.
“But let’s get this straight – it’s not we who save Christmas, it’s Christmas that saves us.
1044
Tasmania recorded 33 new Covid cases, while health authorities in the Northern Territory announced 19 new cases, 10 of which were travellers from interstate.
1045
An estimated 1.7 million people in the UK had Covid-19 in the week ending 19 December, the highest number since comparable figures began in autumn 2020, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said.
1046
Rebecca Miller is cooking up a Christmas Day feast – even though she can’t taste a thing.
Tracy Crisp’s son is a close contact, so the whole family is in isolation in Adelaide.
1047
While London remains the centre of the omicron wave, the ONS said swab results compatible with infections of the new variant rose in all regions of England, and in all nations of the UK, compared with last week’s survey.
1048
Ministers could meet as soon as Monday to determine whether new restrictions are needed in England over the new year amid growing concerns that soaring Covid cases could hit public services.
1049
Priti Patel, the home secretary, said the sector was “experiencing unprecedented challenges prompted by the pandemic”, adding: “The changes we’ve made to the health and care visa will bolster the workforce and help alleviate some of the pressures currently being experienced.”
1050
Retailers and hospitality companies will have to cope this Christmas without much of the emergency government support that helped them through a similar period in 2020.
1051
Prof Tim Spector, lead scientist on the Zoe Covid study, said public messaging needed to acknowledge that Covid symptoms would appear more like a common cold to many of those infected.
1052
The government will send out a UK-wide mobile alert urging the public to get a Covid booster, a move mobile operators fear could spark a backlash from customers opposed to vaccinations.
1053
Harries conceded that booster vaccines had waning immunity against catching Omicron after 10 weeks, but said the jabs would still help prevent serious illness and death.
1054
In one venue, Sum Yung Guys, 23 staff have been deemed close contacts after another tested positive, and has closed for a week.
1055
A Virgin Australia spokesperson said there had been only one unplanned flight cancellation announced on Friday, with passengers booked on other cancelled services for Friday informed earlier this week and most moved on to other flights within an hour of their original booking.
1056
On Friday New South Wales recorded another 5,612 cases of the virus, as indoor mask mandates were reintroduced following a surge in cases of the Omicron variant – it now accounts for about 80% of the state’s cases.
1057
Jeffrey Santos had used a false address to claim $1,600 in vouchers because he lost his job when the Covid lockdown struck in March 2020 and was ineligible for New Zealand’s income relief payment, which wasn’t available to migrant workers.
1058
They will be taking us to Howard Springs for safety and for safety of our family and community.
We are doing all of this for the safety of our family and our community.
1059
The health minister, Greg Hunt, said the changes to intervals would increase the number of people who were eligible for boosters from 3.2 million now to 7.5 million as of 4 January.
1060
According to an INZ spokesperson, the agency has begun processing applications for multiple visa categories – including the humanitarian and family categories – not just for investors.
1061
Meanwhile, provisional figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show that more than a third of adults are experiencing high levels of anxiety, the highest proportion since the UK’s third national lockdown in January.
1062
Anti-vaccination protesters who attempted to serve spurious legal papers to the former England football captain Alan Shearer delivered the documents to the wrong house, it has emerged.
1063
The research found charities provided a vital help to people who fell through gaps in government support, including 1,886 with no recourse to public funds, 829 who were refused asylum and 564 with refugee status.
1064
The health secretary, Sajid Javid, said: “This new UKHSA data on Omicron is promising – while two doses of the vaccine aren’t enough, we know boosters offer significant protection against the variant and early evidence suggests this strain may be less severe than Delta.
1065
The record 119,789 cases for the 24 hours to 9am on Thursday represents a 139% rise on the 50,023 new cases recorded two weeks ago and a 53% week-on-week increase.
1066
“That may be getting them to wear a mask, be socially distant where possible, or it may be getting them to do the rapid antigen test,” Vally said.
1067
The British Medical Association has estimated that anywhere between 32,000 and 130,000 NHS staff across England could be off sick with Covid by Christmas Day.
1068
Sturgeon said sector-based exemptions to self-isolation rules had been published earlier in Scotland, but she would not make wider changes until the public health benefits outweighed the risks.
1069
Prof Adam Finn said: “I think there may well be people who received their boosters early who are in the older more vulnerable age groups who may need a further jab.
1070
The number of seated diners fell by 14 percentage points in the week ending 20 December to 88% of the level in the same period of 2019, before the start of the pandemic, according to the weekly digest of flash economic indicators from the Office for National Statistics (ONS).
1071
The Amnesty International-backed organisation, which is made up of a number of not-for-profits including Human Rights Watch and Oxfam, says that despite making billions in profit Pfizer and Moderna continue to refuse to share the new generation of vaccine technology.
He said: “It’s really a stain our global soul and it affects us all – because I think people are beginning to realise that if we allow the disease to spread in poor countries and the virus mutates, it comes back to haunt even the fully vaccinated.”
1072
Samples where the S-gene is not detected, known as S-gene dropout or S-gene target failure are currently being treated as a proxy for Omicron cases, according to a spokesperson for the UKHSA.
1073
St Basil’s recorded its first Covid case on July 9, 2020, and outbreak managers replaced the entire staff with an emergency workforce on 22 July.
1074
On Thursday, NSW premier Dominic Perrottet announced new Covid-19 rules for his state, including mask requirements, density limits and rapid antigen testing priorities to relieve his state’s overwhelmed PCR test capacity.
1075
Perrottet’s subtext was that people who wanted the rules on wearing masks indoors to remain – or the continuance of QR codes – were all for NSW being a nanny state.
1076
From a child-centric point of view New Zealand has actually done very well.” ‘No one is safe until we’re all safe’
“No one is safe, until we’re all safe.”
1077
“I would ask everybody to listen very carefully to the message that if you don’t need to go – if you haven’t got symptoms or haven’t received a message telling you that you must have a PCR test – probably you don’t need to have a PCR test,” Hazzard said.
1078
The snap lockdown comes amid fears of growing infections nationwide after cases linked to Xi’an were detected in five other regions, including Beijing to the north and Guangdong to the south, according to state media reports.
1079
“Wear a mask in an indoor setting.
Queensland’s daily Covid numbers also jumped substantially with 369 new infections recorded, up from 186 the previous day.
1080
Elliott said the odds of an infection being Omicron instead of Delta were estimated to increase at a rate of 66% a day – 3.5 times faster than the rate at which Delta outcompeted the Alpha variant.
1081
The New South Wales government is considering mailing free rapid Covid-19 tests to people in attempt to ease delays at the state’s overloaded testing centres but has resisted growing calls to reintroduce indoor mask mandates amid record case numbers.
On Thursday Guardian Australia reported that pharmacists in the Covid-hit city of Newcastle have experienced significant shortages of booster vaccines and are having to turn away many of those looking for jabs.
1082
While the analysis shows evidence of “a moderate reduction” in the risk of hospitalisation associated with Omicron compared with Delta, Ferguson said, “this appears to be offset by the reduced efficacy of vaccines against infection with the Omicron variant”.
1083
Wales and Northern Ireland have announced stringent restrictions that will come into force from Boxing Day, including the return of the rule of six for hospitality venues, in an effort to curb the spread of the Omicron variant.
1084
Frontline doctors have issued desperate pleas for more people to get vaccinated after reporting that in some hospitals all new intensive care Covid patients have not had jabs.
1085
Covid-19 testing clinics are cutting their openings hours over the Christmas period despite “unprecedented demand” for testing and reports of hours-long wait times in several states.
1086
At the same time, surging demand for booster vaccinations has prompted pharmacists to beg the federal government for increased supplies, citing a substantial shortfall of jabs.
1087
In November, former NSW premier Bob Carr called for Australia to follow Singapore’s example after its government announced it would start charging people who were “unvaccinated by choice” for their medical bills.
1088
Osman was in hospital at the same time, suffering from Covid, so got to spend time with Adedeji before he died.
Osman says she found it difficult to recover,
1089
NHS England has said that a total of 301 Covid-19 admissions were recorded by hospitals in London on 20 December, up 78% week on week and the highest number for a single day since 7 February.
1090
Children aged five to 11 who are in a clinical risk group or who are a household contact of someone who is immunosuppressed are now eligible to receive a Covid jab.
1091
Rebecca Passmore, the UK managing director of PureGym, which is the largest gym chain in the UK, said: “We echo calls on the government to reconsider its latest support measures, which exclude gyms, pools, and leisure centres.
1092
Plans for New Year’s Eve parties in England may have to be scrapped, a minister has admitted, as she said there remained uncertainty over the severity of illness caused by the Omicron variant of Covid-19.
1093
Given the AHPPC had advised mandatory mask wearing, and the prime minister wasn’t echoing that recommendation, Morrison and the chief medical officer Prof Paul Kelly were asked on Wednesday afternoon whether or not the health advice had changed?
1094
The next day, Office for National Statistics data shows that the UK death toll surpassed 100,000: the government's death count, which only includes those deaths occurring within 28 days of a positive Covid test, stood at 81,397.
1095
In a sign of fading momentum before Omicron emerged, the latest snapshot also revealed a more substantial drag than expected from trade amid disruption to global supply chains and additional trade barriers from Brexit.
1096
Health advice circulated to state and territory leaders late last week made the case for mandating masks in all indoor settings, including retail, entertainment facilities, and hospitality when not eating and drinking.
1097
Covid admissions were falling in the south-east, south-west, the east of England, the north-east and Yorkshire, and the Midlands.
1098
To enter Queensland, travellers are required to return a negative Covid test 72 hours before arrival, leaving thousands scrambling to get a test before travelling and placing extraordinary pressure on health systems in the lead-up to Christmas.
1099
A similar story was shared by Amos, a 37-year-old who said he and his partner had been planning to drive to South Australia from Victoria the weekend before Christmas to visit family when his partner unexpectedly tested positive.
1100
A directive sent to health workers from the Nepean Blue Mountains primary health network said low-risk Covid-19 patients “will be ‘self-managed’ and will receive information via SMS from NSW Health about managing any mild symptoms”.
1101
Analysis by the UKHSA suggests that a seven-day isolation period alongside two negative lateral flow test results has nearly the same protective effect as a 10-day isolation period without lateral flow testing.
1102
If individuals cannot find a suitable clinic or appointment, people are encouraged to check back regularly as more clinics and more appointments will be added over the coming weeks,” they said.
1103
Jenny Jones, a Green party peer, asked the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) to investigate following reports that a gathering took place on 18 December last year that involved food, party games and drinking late into the night.
1104
“The key metric, which takes into account both the intrinsic severity of Omicron and the degree of human escape, is the case hospitalisation rate – so, for a given number of cases, what proportion ended up in hospital?” he said.
1105
She said that staffing shortages were already putting additional strain on health and emergency services, adding that 100 Scotrail services were cancelled on Sunday because of staff absence.
1106
‘We need a change of government’ Sharon and her husband John, who has motor neurone disease, had to change their plans after family members tested positive.
1107
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has approved 15 different rapid antigen testing kits, and categorised them according to their clinical sensitivity.
1108
Seidler reckons people will largely do the right thing if given personal responsibility, “There’s a collective sense of social responsibility – the people who broke the rules – like the Byron guy, they are outliers.
1109
Aged Care and Community Services chief executive officer Paul Sadler said without guidance some homes would overreact and not even allow essential visitors, while there was also a risk of Omicron spreading through homes over Christmas.
1110
Samuel Tombs, UK economist at Pantheon Macro, said: “The sharp drop in the net balance of retailers reporting that sales were higher than a year ago suggests that annual growth in retail sales has slowed to a crawl.
1111
Rates of new infections and deaths have fallen over the past week, but health experts have repeatedly said this does not mean the situation is easing because figures for daily deaths and hospital admissions remain high.
1112
Australia’s chief medical officer, Prof Paul Kelly, has urged all state and territory chief health officers to mandate masks in all indoor settings, citing rising case numbers for the new Covid variant.
1113
People hopping over the border to Belgium and Germany to avoid the Dutch lockdown are filling the neighbouring countries’ restaurants and shops despite calls for them to “stay away”.
1114
Gunn was also sentenced to five months’ jail with two months suspended for breaching family violence orders, taking his overall sentence to 10 months with four months suspended.
1115
But speaking from Queensland on Tuesday, Morrison said decisions about the use of mask mandates were up to individual states, and he wanted to encourage a “culture of responsibility”.
1116
Because the rate of growth in infection rates may already have plateaued or fallen by then, it may also be too late to know what impact those restrictions would have had if they had been introduced earlier.
1117
The new “traffic light” system to help contain the virus has been operating for just under thee weeks, and was designed to signal an end to lockdowns, in favour of other measures such as limits on gathering sizes, and restrictions for unvaccinated people.
1118
They need training in PPE and often key staff are required to isolate as close contacts of the client or staff cases.”
“Everyone is stretched,” she said.
1119
The first Football League fixture to be affected is Swansea’s Championship clash with Luton, which is currently scheduled for 29 December.
1120
Unlike at Sandringham, where members of the royal family gather and walk to St Mary Magdalene church, greeting members of the public outside, there is not expected to be any public church visit on 25 December.
1121
Iain Wylie, the chief executive, said Christmas trade in some areas had been affected by concerns about the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and anyone with too many trees would need to discount heavily now to clear them.
1122
The EU has secured 100m doses of Novavax and 60m doses of Valneva, with 4m Novavax doses immediately destined for Germany.
1123
Royal Mail said a few local offices might not be able to deliver mail six days a week, due partly to Covid-related self-isolation or higher-than-usual levels of staff absences.
1124
UK nightclubs and gyms have joined hospitality operators in calling on the government to provide urgent financial support, as trade slumps and customers stay away amid rising Covid cases.
1125
In Australia the federal government provides tests to health facilities, while there are different situations in different states and territories (for now, South Australia and Western Australia do not allow the general public to use at-home tests).
1126
Another advantage of 2-metre distancing is that it restricts the number of people in indoor settings, reducing the chances of an infectious person being present – and the number of people they could transmit the virus to.
1127
The former prime minister said the emergence of Omicron was “not Africa’s fault”, and added that new variants would continue to wreak havoc because richer countries such as the UK had “stockpiled” hundreds of millions of vaccines.
1128
Hopson said: “I was talking to a [trust] chief executive who said that 40 of the midwives on their midwifery service … were saying they were not prepared to be vaccinated.
1129
Waiting times in Victoria have averaged between 40 minutes and an hour during the past week, while a busy ACT site reached capacity by 9.30am on Monday.
1130
Morrison declared vaccination and booster shots remained the best protection against serious illness, and he said Australia needed to keep moving forward with easing of public health restrictions.
1131
“We need people to be wearing masks, but if compliance is already high without mandates, and masks are already strongly recommended, I am not sure there is enough evidence that a mandate will make a difference,” she said.
1132
A 19-year-old man who travelled to Byron Bay with his father who had Covid-19, sparking a seven-day lockdown of the area, has been fined $35,000.
1133
“If you design a vaccine rollout that doesn’t specifically reach those families who are hardest to reach, you will inevitably end up with an inequitable vaccine rollout.”
1134
According to Springboard, total high street footfall was flat on Saturday and down 5.9% on Sunday, with shoppers in particular avoiding trips to London, where local authorities declared a major incident on Saturday linked to the surge in Omicron cases.
1135
Melbourne man Qas Ansari, 37, said he was worried he would pass Covid onto his three housemates, so they sealed off his room using plastic sheeting, building an airlock over his door, and for two days he used a bucket for a toilet and did not shower.
1136
In Buckinghamshire, a spokesperson for the NHS clinical commissioning group (CCG) said: “To help ensure as many people can get their booster dose as soon as possible, vaccination centres in Buckinghamshire are currently asking people to book appointments for their jabs.
1137
For weeks, Andrew Taylor had pinned his hopes on “mad Friday”, the last one before the Christmas holidays when hundreds of people would normally pack into his gastropub in Croydon.
1138
“They need to support people with blood cancer by giving them clear communications, easy access to booster doses and financial support for those who cannot work from home.
1139
NSW premier Dominic Perrottet has ruled out reintroducing mask mandates or other restrictions, saying it is a matter of “personal responsibility”, despite the state setting another record for daily Covid infections.
1140
Asked on Sunday about the prospects of fresh statewide lockdowns given the new restrictions in the Netherlands, the federal health minister told reporters in Canberra the circumstances in Europe were quite different to Australia.
1141
Under the new rules brought in due to the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, UK citizens now need a “compelling reason” to enter France, with trips for tourism or business banned.
1142
The advisers suggested reintroducing measures “equivalent to those in place after step 2 or step 1 of the roadmap in England”.
1143
She said all of them tried to get farm work, but there just wasn’t enough work to fulfil their visa requirements.
That’s when Jay emailed Golden Fish.
1144
“We do know from evidence from the first two doses that a longer interval between the first dose and second dose gives you higher antibodies, higher protection,” says Cyra Patel, a PhD candidate at the Australian National University.
1145
It comes as the number of deaths in England of people with the Omicron variant has risen to seven, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said, from the previous figure of one.
1146
Meanwhile, leaked minutes seen by the BBC of a meeting of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) said that without government intervention beyond the recently announced plan B measures, hospital admissions in England could reach “at least” 3,000 a day.
1147
One of them is: ‘I said some hail Marys over Mr Jacobs, even though he’s Jewish’.
The other says, ‘I walked past Mr Jacobs’s bed.
1148
People may be reluctant because they feel they have enough immunity and have “done their bit”, Fancourt said.
“They now feel like it’s asking too much of them,” she said.
1149
The new figures come as a leading government adviser said the most effective way to stop the spread of Omicron would be to have a circuit-breaker lockdown before Christmas.
1150
Choir master and composer Harvey Brough, who leads Vox Holloway in north London, called on occasional singers to embrace the opportunity, adding that a concert changes its nature in the fresh air.
1151
A rush of passengers travelling to France to beat the country’s ban on UK tourists has led to a knock-on effect on freight traffic, resulting in long queues of lorries.
1152
Apply at least 10 weeks before
Digital applications were taking an average of 7.8 weeks, while paper applications were taking an average of 13.7 weeks.
1153
“[Government] had a plan and they are sticking to the plan, but Omicron does not care about your plan.
Covid does not care about your plan.
1154
He said the level of vaccine coverage, and freshness of the vaccine, kept numbers stable – but it was “never going to last”.
“Vaccines wane,” he said.
Blakely said NSW would likely overtake Victoria’s hospitalisation numbers in the next one to two weeks a lag in rising case numbers caught up.
1155
Visits to high streets and shopping centres have fallen ahead of what is traditionally the biggest shopping weekend of the calendar, with a 20% fall in central London footfall on Thursday prompting forecasts of a “muted” end to a turbulent year.
1156
There were a further 93,045 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases recorded in the UK as of 9am on Friday, according to government figures, the highest daily total since the pandemic began.
1157
The Welsh government has said it had no choice but to close nightclubs to counter the Omicron “storm” after modelling suggested half of the UK’s population could become infected by the strain.
1158
Education: doctorate in medical science from Oxford; two diplomas, in tropical medicine and hygiene, and economics; three master’s degrees, in epidemiology, medical law and business administration.
1159
A large wave of Covid hospitalisations would, on its own, be a big problem for the NHS but that is not the only concern – as Prof Chris Whitty has pointed out, the NHS itself will be affected by Omicron through staff sickness and isolation.
1160
An increase in the number of people driving after disruption to fuel supplies in the two previous months also helped the sale of petrol and diesel increase 3.7%, although volumes were still 1.9% below pre-pandemic levels.
1161
Stormont ministers will meet next Wednesday to consider potential new coronavirus restrictions.
Working from home England’s guidance is that people should work from home if they can.
1162
“The news that house prices [could] continue to rise is particularly concerning for first-time buyers, a group who have struggled with rising house prices for decades,” said Sophia Guy-White, a co-founder of Generation Home, which specialises in mortgages for first-time buyers.
1163
A source familiar with the vaccine rollout in NSW told Guardian Australia health authorities in the state were concerned about record transmission levels this week as well as a potential waning of protection, given that a large number of people in the state received AstraZeneca.
1164
Kate Evans waited for an hour and a half for a test at Warringah Aquatic Centre’s testing clinic on Thursday morning.
“We were only waiting for an hour.”
1165
Saffron Cordery, deputy chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents NHS hospitals and mental health, community and ambulance services, said: “Trust leaders are telling us that Omicron is already creating staff shortages in the NHS.
1166
Expert Doctors and Covid Travel Clinics appear to be leaving a trail of unhappy customers who say PCR tests they ordered and paid for have either never arrived or turned up late – with some complaining they have been forced to quarantine for several days longer as a result.
1167
People 18 years and older who had their second dose of any Covid-19 vaccine five months or more ago are eligible to get a booster of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, even if they had AstraZeneca as their first vaccine.
1168
They have the option of continuing the prosecution themselves or discontinuing it, which is what occurred earlier this year when a private prosecution was brought against Victoria’s chief magistrate Lisa Hannan.
1169
Dentists’ leaders have said mandatory jabs for healthcare staff will have a “calamitous” impact on dental services in England, as a survey revealed that one in 10 dentists have not been double-vaccinated.
1170
The Welsh government will bring in new restrictions including closing nightclubs and imposing a 2-metre social distancing rule in offices from 27 December to try to combat the Omicron variant and has issued “strong guidance” over how to stay safe over Christmas.
1171
Rain Newton-Smith, chief economist for the CBI, said: “Further support for struggling firms will be needed if fresh government public health measures prevent firms trading their way to recovery.”
1172
“A million infections a day translates into a hell of a lot of hospitalisations, even if we get far fewer hospitalisations per case than we have in the past,” he said.
1173
An average of 10,510 hospital beds were occupied each day last week by people who were medically fit to leave but could not be discharged, highlighting the continuing inability of social care services to help patients return to their home or care home.
1174
Jeremy Miles, Wales’s minister for education, said all schools should plan for measures based on the Welsh government’s “very high risk level” of infection control, and was giving authority for schools to operate staggered start and finish times.
1175
A tightening of restrictions under the government’s “plan B” and a more cautious approach by consumers combined to push the economy close to stalling, with the service sector particularly affected.
1176
Everyone in the production had tested negative that day, explained the press officer, and it hit me then how the industry was once again forced to live by the day and the moment.
1177
And number three is if you’ve got any symptoms, don’t go.”
If you’ve got symptoms, its about 80-90%, but if you have symptoms you should be getting a PCR test.
1178
Lauterbach instead praised Spahn’s efforts and saying the “massive increase in speed” of the Omicron variant together with efforts to dampen the Delta variant were behind his drive to “turbo boost” the vaccine campaign.
1179
Nicola Sturgeon has urged Scots to stay at home as she warned the new Omicron Covid variant was “currently running faster than even the fastest rollout of vaccines”, and likely to be the dominant variant in Scotland by Friday.
1180
Abta’s chief executive, Mark Tanzer, says the temporary ban on most travel from the UK will come as a “hammer blow” to the winter travel industry, which was already under extreme pressure.
1181
The Queen has cancelled her traditional pre-Christmas family party for the second year running, as the Omicron variant sends Covid cases soaring.
1182
Thousands of hospitality firms across the UK could go bust by January because of a “fear campaign” and a lack of financial support following the surge in the Omicron variant, the boss of a leading pub chain has warned.
On the high street, footfall has also fallen by nearly 20% in recent weeks, as shoppers become more cautious a result of the variant, according to The Entertainer toys chain founder Gary Grant.
We have to keep our staff safe”, he said.
1183
Putting the Bank on a path to higher borrowing costs despite immediate short-term concerns over the economy, Threadneedle Street warned inflation was rising by more than expected due to soaring energy costs and global supply bottlenecks that would take time to dissipate.
1184
Those that have yet to repay loans or applied for tax deferral schemes should be allowed to take longer repaying them.
1185
“People cannot travel for tourism or professional reasons,” it said, adding that the British government had itself said that the UK would face “a tidal wave” of new infections fuelled by the Omicron variant.
1186
Early data from South Africa and laboratory data from the Kirby Institute in Australia has found being double-dose vaccinated against Covid-19 does not offer as much protection against symptomatic infection from the Omicron strain as it does for Delta.
1187
Western Australian projects will get: $300m to support the Metronet, $32m for the Newman to Katherine corridor upgrade, $25m for the Canning Bridge bus interchange, and $50m for a road duplication at Wanneroo Road.
1188
The University and College Union (UCU), which represents university staff, urged the government to allow universities to move online for the final week of term, rather than risk unnecessary infections and isolation over Christmas.
1189
The Indigenous health workforce is stretched and faces a “huge vaccination workload” as it scrambles to close the Covid-19 vaccination gap and administer boosters to Aboriginal communities, health advisers say.
1190
Nick Hockley, Cricket Australia’s chief executive, lamented the situation and said it was an unfortunate case of being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
1191
Chris Whitty has sent a clear message to cut back on socialising in the run-up to Christmas Day, warning that a rise in Covid hospitalisations is “nailed on” after cases hit a record high.
1192
“The challenge we face in London is significant but every dose of vaccine given to someone is a brick in that wall of protection,” said Prof Kevin Fenton, the London regional director of public health at the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities.
1193
” He accused ministers of “holding London to ransom” by threatening to withhold funding without forcing changes, and that he had been left with no alternative but to plan to increase council tax.
1194
The Redfern Legal Centre, the Aboriginal Legal Service (NSW/ACT) and the Public Interest Advocacy Centre are calling on the NSW government to revoke the fines and issue cautions instead.
1195
The Ryanair boss, Michael O’Leary, has said the UK government’s response to the Omicron Covid variant has been shaped by “panic” and “idiots”, blaming travel restrictions for a million fewer passengers than forecast flying on his airline this month.
1196
Factory gate prices rose further as cost pressures in global supply chains intensified – a sign inflation could drift higher still over the coming months.
1197
Thorrun Govind, the society’s chair in England, said: “On 13 December just 1,500 community pharmacies delivered 44% of all the Covid booster jabs in England – 185,000 out of a total of 418,000 booster jabs – which is an extraordinary feat from an already exhausted workforce.
1198
Baldock said Currys was still on track to meet its profits targets for the year as the technology market was 20% bigger than before the pandemic, given the surge in home working and rise of gaming as families spent more time in the business.
1199
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) approved the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in June for children aged 12-15 and the Moderna jab for 12- to 17-year-olds in August.
1200
Keir Starmer has said Boris Johnson is “too weak” to lead the UK through the health crisis caused by Omicron, and the government’s reliance on Labour votes to pass new Covid measures showed the PM had lost authority with his own MPs.
1201
“No one wants to curtail freedoms, and MPs rightly think about these things extremely carefully before voting,” he said.
That is where we see the authority.”
1202
New modelling shows New South Wales could record up to 25,000 cases of Covid-19 a day by the end of January, health minister Brad Hazzard says, as the state moves ahead with its easing of restrictions.
1203
Used car prices increased by 3.1% from October to November 2021, leading to a cumulative increase of 31.3% since April 2021, the ONS said.
1204
Soaring Covid cases could cause major shortages across industry, hospitality and healthcare, ministers have been told, as rail companies cancelled services and Royal Mail said it was experiencing high staff absences.
1205
The cabinet has been told that rising Covid-19 infections a result of Omicron are likely to mean staff shortages across industries and sectors, similar to the pingdemic that was set off by millions self-isolating over the summer.
Schools One in every 30 primary school pupils in England was absent from the classroom last week for Covid-related reasons, according to government statistics.
1206
The Daily Express notes the revolt “bruises Boris” but asks whether he will be “proved right” over the need to introduce the latest Covid restrictions.
1207
At the same time, the guild has warned that vastly fewer pharmacies will be participating in the rollout of boosters, down from 3,400 pharmacies in the initial rollout to 1,900, due to the government’s low level of remuneration.
1208
“Even with a booster, we will need another booster in six months, with the caveat we don’t know what other variant will emerge,” she said.
1209
D’Ath said the public health unit acted “cautiously” to declare anyone on the two confirmed flights as close contacts while the chief health officer analysed how to respond to Omicron on flights.
1210
The prime minister travelled to Queensland on Wednesday after getting advice from Queensland Health and the state’s chief medical officer who agreed that all the normal requirements have been met.
1211
Boris Johnson has suffered a humiliating rebellion over measures to slow the spread of the Omicron variant, with 99 Conservative MPs rejecting plans for vaccine certificates despite surging infections and personal lobbying by the prime minister.
1212
Pfizer said: “We submitted the data package to the MHRA for consideration as the next step in the process after the CHMP [the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use] granted a positive opinion for the use of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in five- to 11-year-olds.
1213
The UKHSA says Javid’s 200,000-a-day figure stems from projected ONS infection survey data, which estimated there were about 78,000 Delta infections on 7 December, equating to approximately 23,000 daily Omicron infections on the same day.
1214
Hopkins said with so many people expected to contract the virus over the coming weeks, the NHS would come under significant pressure if only a fraction became ill enough to need hospital care.
1215
All 11 countries on England’s travel red list are to be taken off it from 4am on Wednesday, amid diminishing concern about Omicron cases being imported into the country.
1216
Vaccination rates among those experiencing homelessness were “significantly lower” than the general population, charities said, which is concerning as often this group has underlying clinical conditions.
1217
Home delivery PCR kits were available, the website said, but for the second day running, rapid lateral flow test kits only intermittently unavailable online.
1218
Sturgeon responded that Scotland had the fastest progress on vaccinations of any UK nation and argued that mass clinics had high rates of non-attendance.
1219
A Treasury spokesperson said: “We welcome the IMF’s report on the UK’s economic support package and their assessment that the UK economy is resilient, and recovered faster than expected because of this government’s actions.
1220
With vaccine production still years away, will mRNA vaccines still be useful then?
Locally manufacturing mRNA vaccines by 2024 is an “incredibly aggressive” time frame, Munro said.
1221
Pubs and restaurants predict that Christmas cancellations made following the introduction of measures to limit the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in England will cut their festive takings by 40%.
1222
If South Australia’s experience is anything to go by, Tasmania’s Covid-free status will end in a matter of days once the state opens to Victoria and New South Wales on Wednesday.
1223
“In NSW and Victoria, we have seen that high rates of vaccination plus some public health measures has been able to keep case numbers and hospitalisations stable,” he said.
1224
Announcing a deal with Moderna and the Victorian government that will see a new manufacturing facility built in Melbourne by as early as 2024, Morrison said the country’s high vaccination rate meant Australia could “continue to move forward”.
1225
Possibly, for the first time in my life, I am not doing things to suit others in the family and the whanau (family).
I began to feel my ‘family tank’ was empty.
1226
A number of Covid cases linked to a Newcastle nightclub outbreak, which has resulted in 84 positive tests to date, are also likely to be the Omicron variant, NSW Health said on Monday.
1227
Hong Kong’s health authorities said that both cases were imported from the UK, where the health secretary, Sajid Javid, told MPs on Monday that Omicron now represents 20% of Covid cases in England.
1228
Amazon is to start selling low-cost Covid PCR test kits to travellers in a move that promises to shake up a market that has been described as a “rip-off jungle” for consumers.
1229
“For users aged 18-29, please be aware that booking opens on Wednesday 15 December.
For users aged 18-29, please be aware that booking opens on Wednesday 15 Dec.
1230
Dyson workers expected to work from the office include teams in research, IT, security, development, commercial and estates management, among other departments – a list that is thought to include large numbers of its UK workers.
1231
After a warning to the government from Britain’s top health officials, revealed by the Guardian, that “stringent national measures” needed to be imposed this week, the prime minister said he would “take whatever steps are necessary to protect public health”.
1232
Scotland’s health secretary, Humza Yousaf, has said it will be “extremely challenging” to hit the new Covid booster target and confirmed there would be new controls to stem the spread of the Omicron variant.
1233
If you are travelling into WA for six days or more, then you must receive a negative PCR test within 72 hours of departure and undertake a PCR test within 48 hours of arrival into the state.
1234
Grant Hehir, the auditor general, found nothing that caused him to believe any problems with the accuracy of the information supplied by Defence as part of the process.
1235
The Western Australian premier, Mark McGowan, announced on Monday plans to allow interstate and international travellers to enter the state without quarantine from midnight on 5 February, when the state was expected to hit its 90% fully vaccinated target.
1236
Scott Morrison, welcoming the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, to Canberra on Monday, said Australia would open to travellers from South Korea and Japan and also international students and skilled workers more broadly.
1237
As domestic border rules eased on Monday, Covid-19 infections continued to grow, with Victoria reporting 1,290 new cases and two deaths, while New South Wales recorded 536 new cases, amid increasing numbers of the Omicron variant.
1238
Accountancy firm Moore UK said its latest quarterly survey of owner-managed businesses found that 33% were planning to make redundancies over the next six months now that the safety net of furlough had been removed.
1239
They called NSW Health and were told there was “a massive backlog”.
“NSW Health knew that this was going to be a huge influx of tests when this border was going to open.
1240
New Zealand health authorities are investigating claims that a man received up to 10 Covid-19 vaccination doses in one day on behalf other people, in the latest effort by members of the public to skirt tough restrictions on the unvaccinated.
Proper medical exemptions can only be granted through the Ministry of Health, and medical professionals are required to be immunised.
1241
As one official said: “NHS leaders will be fine with the plan as they recognise that the likely pressures from Omicron could be very serious.
1242
Johnson will offer a number of concessions to the rebels, starting with an announcement that from Tuesday contacts of Covid cases will be able to take a lateral flow test every day instead of isolating if they have been vaccinated.
1243
However, as more data has become available, including the vaccination of 5 million five- to 11-year-olds in the US with no reports of myocarditis or other red flags, the argument for vaccinating children has become more compelling, Openshaw said.
1244
The decision to move from level 3 to 4 was taken on Sunday on the recommendation of the UK chief medical officers and NHS England’s national medical director.
1245
“People are saying: ‘We went to this event and nearly all of us are testing positive, and we’re waiting to find out if this is Omicron,’” said Spector.
1246
No deaths have been reported so far from Omicron, although it is just over two weeks since the variant was first detected in the UK, and there is normally a time lag of three to four weeks between infection and death, should that happen.
1247
Business leaders have called on the government to extend VAT relief and reductions in business rates, while the TUC said the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, should bring back the furlough scheme and increase sick pay to prevent businesses from going bust.
1248
She is planning to spend Christmas with her 69-year-old mother and a family friend, who is vulnerable to Covid. “For the sake of our Christmas and, more specifically, just for the sake of our own health
1249
Brown added: “Cancelling weigh-ins … means parents miss the chance to ask questions and get reassurance, they feel unsupported and feel like no one is looking out for their baby.
1250
NSW recorded 10 new cases of Omicron in the 24 hours to 8pm Saturday night – still only a fraction of the 485 new cases recorded.
1251
Given the presence of both the Omicron and Delta variants, the Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (Atagi) now recommends Covid-19 vaccine booster shots for adults who completed their primary course of vaccination five or more months ago.
1252
For Louie Swain, 27, who heard about getting a booster vaccine near his home in Harrogate from a friend, it is wanting to spend time with vulnerable family members over Christmas that brought him to the vaccination centre yesterday.
1253
“We are turbocharging our booster programme,” Javid wrote.
 We are turbocharging our booster programme.
So much for your turbocharging of the booster programme.”
1254
Access remains a problem for some, including immune-suppressed people who need a third primary dose of the vaccine but say there is no way to book a vaccine appointment.
1255
Dr Rosanna Barnard from LSHTM’s Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, added: “In our most optimistic scenario, the impact of Omicron in the early part of 2022 would be reduced with mild control measures such as working from home.
1256
Earlier this week, Susan Acland-Hood, the permanent secretary at the Department for Education (DfE), suggested to MPs that most schools would have to pay for any new air conditioning or ventilation from their existing budgets.
1257
The government said specialist vaccination teams were also being expanded and deployed to guarantee that all care home residents and staff, and housebound people and their care-givers, were offered a booster jab.
1258
We cancelled our university and Zoe [app] Christmas parties, which was disappointing, but I’ve still been socialising.
All [my parties] have been cancelled.
1259
New South Wales has recorded the highest number of daily Covid cases since early October while Victoria reported 13 Covid deaths and 1,193 new cases on Saturday.
1260
The Guardian has seen leaked advice from UKHSA for Javid marked “official, sensitive” saying: “The key point is that under a range of plausible scenarios, stringent action is needed on or before 18 December 2021 if doubling times stay at 2.5 days.
1261
While the effectiveness of the jabs against severe disease is still unknown, the team says it is expected to be higher, drawing parallels to the drop in vaccine effectiveness for Delta when compared with earlier variants.
1262
Grant Fitzner, the chief economist at the ONS, said: “While GDP growth slowed in October, the UK health sector again grew strongly while secondhand car sales and employment agencies also boosted the economy.
1263
Under new measures being considered by minsters to tackle increasing cases of Covid, families and residents in England will have to choose which three visitors enter the care or nursing home over Christmas, with changes to named visitors allowed only under strict conditions.
1264
With tighter government restrictions and consumers reacting with caution above and beyond the official rules, the big fear is the October growth snapshot might be as good as it gets for several months to come.
1265
Paul Dales, chief UK economist at Capital Economics, said the emergence of the Omicron variant would slow the recovery and increase the risk of higher inflation.
1266
The federal government revealed it would extend emergency powers for a further two months to February 2022, keeping in force mandatory mask wearing for international flights and restrictions on international travel from countries deemed high-risk.
1267
The latest restriction has been put in place to mitigate the risk of a spread of the Omicron variant from Great Britain, where the number of cases has nearly doubled in one day after a further 249 cases were confirmed.
1268
Booster doses are not now recommended for those aged under 18 because the vaccines generate a strong immune response in this group, so the benefit from additional doses of vaccine is likely to be small.
1269
Large numbers of stranded travellers have begun arriving at the Queensland border days ahead of its scheduled reopening, increasing concerns about long delays at police checkpoints.
1270
It is also strongly advising people to wear face coverings in pubs and restaurants when they aren’t eating or drinking.
1271
Three UK cabinet ministers have gone into isolation after being in close contact with the Australian deputy prime minister, Barnaby Joyce, who later tested positive for Covid.
1272
Cases of the Omicron variant could be spreading even faster in England than in South Africa, according to a senior scientific adviser, who warned that the variant was a “very severe setback” to hopes of bringing the pandemic under control.
1273
Mellor said the potential lost business because of new vaccine requirements for clubs and the cost of taking on extra staff to deal with entry rules would only add to those difficulties.
1274
Scotland’s national public health body is “strongly urging” people to cancel Christmas parties after a number of Omicron outbreaks linked to festive get-togethers.
1275
New restrictions to limit the spread of the Omicron variant will delay an interest rate increase from the Bank of England despite signs that the government’s measures will add to the cost of living for hard-pressed consumers, the City believes.
1276
“To tell people to work from home then to say to go to Christmas parties is contradictory and lacks coherence,” said Prof Susan Michie, director of the Centre for Behaviour Change at University College London.
1277
La Niña could create a spike in Covid cases by forcing people indoors to avoid the rain at the same time as the Omicron variant is spreading in Australia, say epidemiologists who are warning health authorities to delay the easing of social distancing measures.
1278
Australian children aged five to 11 will receive the Pfizer Covid vaccine from 10 January, after the federal government accepted a recommendation for its use from immunisation experts.
1279
But you do not have to wear masks at cafes, restaurants and pubs in Wales, or at weddings.
People are also urged to work from home if possible.
1280
Noah’s describes itself as the “largest backpacker accommodation” at Bondi Beach. Thursday’s lockdown comes as New South Wales recorded 420 local cases of Covid – the highest number since October.
1281
Health experts have expressed fears over the impact tighter Covid restrictions in England could have on cancer patients alarming new figures reveal that the number taking part in clinical trials plummeted by almost 60% during the pandemic.
We need urgent investment in the Covid-19 recovery of clinical trials.
We also need to learn the lessons from Covid-19.
1282
Earlier this week the head of the Ofsted schools inspectorate in England, Amanda Spielman, said almost all children had felt the impact of lockdowns and struggled with a “hokey-cokey education”.
1283
The government says Joyce – who was in London earlier this week and met with the British justice secretary, Dominic Raab, and the Australian high commissioner to the UK, George Brandis – will isolate in the US until it is safe for him to return to Australia.
The prime minister, Scott Morrison, who has been in text message contact with Joyce, said the deputy prime minister had had two tests in the UK that came back negative, before third test in the US came back positive.
1284
William Wragg, a Tory MP, accused the prime minister of a “diversionary tactic”, while Mark Harper, a former chief whip, questioned why anyone should “do things that people working in No 10 Downing Street are not prepared to do”.
1285
The policing source said: “Across the country there are currently investigations into alleged breaches dating back a similar amount of time [to the Downing Street party], where the alleged breach is enough to justify a retrospective investigation.
1286
Warning that Treasury support and steps to fix the sick pay system were glaring omissions from the government announcement on tighter restrictions, union leaders said furlough would be needed for the hardest-hit sectors of the economy.
1287
After Case’s review into the 18 December party was announced, Cummings urged the cabinet secretary to also investigate a party in the Johnsons’ flat.
1288
While the original plan B envisaged only vaccination being allowed, Johnson said people will also be able to show evidence of a recent negative lateral flow test – some MPs and ministers were known to be wary of vaccine-only certificates.
1289
The government is planning to ease border restrictions for temporary visa holders from 15 December, including those holding 485 visas, a type of visa given to recent graduates with sought-after skills.
1290
In the film, Allegra Stratton, a senior political adviser who then worked directly for Boris Johnson, was fielding questions from colleagues – one of them, Ed Oldfield, referenced a party that had taken place days before.
1291
Boris Johnson is expected to trigger plan B later on Wednesday, with working from home expected to become mandatory and the possible introduction of vaccine passports.
1292
Downing Street said no final decisions had been made but ministers and officials convened on Wednesday to move to plan B and to begin imposing some restrictions as early as Wednesday night.
1293
“We’ll start seeing an impact on overall case numbers – it’s still probably only 2%, 3% of all cases so it’s kind of swamped, but within a week or two we’ll start seeing overall case numbers accelerate quite markedly as well.”
1294
Rennick has experienced a meteoric rise in reach on Facebook, adding 70,000 followers in a little over a month, as he shared stories of vaccine adverse events he admits he can’t be sure are “100% accurate” and videos of anti-lockdown protests in Melbourne.
1295
“For example … for someone who is at an occupational risk of having exposure to infection, so staff on a Covid ward for example, that’s an occupational health and safety consideration, it’s like having a hardhat on a construction site as part of a suite of protections.”
1296
Tennis Australia has hit back at suggestions it is seeking to exploit a “loophole” in border entry rules so unvaccinated players can compete in the upcoming Australian Open, as it included Novak Djokovic in the draw for the January grand slam.
1297
The huge recruitment push comes as millions more people can book their Covid booster vaccine on Wednesday as the NHS cuts the qualifying time from six months after a second dose to three.
1298
NHS test and trace suspended testing operations by Immensa in Wolverhampton in October after an investigation into reports of people receiving negative PCR test results after they had previously tested positive on a lateral flow device.
1299
The pledged billion doses includes 600m donations and 400m locally produced, and is in addition to 200m doses already delivered to African nations under previous pledges.
1300
The online booking system for vaccines will be updated in the morning and details will be updated throughout the day, officials revealed on Tuesday night.
1301
Randstad said: “We are working closely with tuition partners to deliver an ambitious and high-quality programme, at pace, to help pupils whose education has been most impacted.
1302
Top Google searches for news events in Australia in 2021 COVID NSW Cleo Smith QLD COVID update Alec Baldwin Coronavirus Victoria William Tyrrell Bert Newton Christian Porter Afghanistan Melbourne earthquake
1303
If fully vaccinated, visitors must present an in-date NHS Covid pass as proof of vaccination and fill out a passenger locator form.
Documents required
1304
For example, liver mortality rates in England increased 43% between 2001 and 2019, to the extent that liver disease became the second leading disease causing premature death among people of working age, according to PHE.
1305
Skerritt rejected Rennick’s claim it takes seven to 10 years for full clinical trials of other drugs, and said the duration of two-and-a-half months for children’s Covid vaccines was “not all that different” from normal timeframes.
1306
As of 4 December, just over eight in 10 people aged 12 or older UK-wide had received two doses of a coronavirus vaccine, according to data from the UK Health Security Agency, while 89% had received a first dose.
1307
On Tuesday, the acting Nationals leader, David Littleproud, counselled and condemned Christensen over his comments on American conspiracy theorist Alex Jones’s online show InfoWars, aspects of which Scott Morrison also condemned.
1308
A booster dose could be necessary to keep your green Covid-19 vaccination tick in the future, the health department secretary Brendan Murphy says.
1309
As well as testing voter sentiment on Berejiklian, Morrison and Icac, Guardian Essential poll respondents were also asked a number of questions about the Omicron variant, health regulations, and trust in institutions.
1310
“It is very alarming that more than 13,000 planned operations were cancelled in the past two months alone,” said Prof Neil Mortensen, the president of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
1311
Listed companies received $1.65bn of jobkeeper in the 2020 financial year and $2.56bn in the 2021 financial year, the new Asic figures show.
1312
The ombudsman, Deborah Glass, said the decision to shut the border to Sydney and others parts of NSW in July left thousands suddenly stranded.
1313
Travel firms have called on the government to provide urgent financial help as fresh Covid-19 restrictions come in to force on Tuesday, hitting holiday travel just before the peak booking period.
1314
Ministers said 336 cases had been identified by whole-genome sequencing, but experts said numbers were expected to be much higher given the variant’s potential for exponential growth and the fact it takes five to seven days for a case to be confirmed.
1315
An alliance of legal services have urged the New South Wales government to to stop chasing people to pay Covid fines, saying have been issued incorrectly and have disproportionately hurt Indigenous Australians, homeless groups and people living with a disability.
1316
Looking at other aspects of people’s finances, the trade body said levels of unsecured debt had increased in line with spending, but it added that in the main, customers were continuing to pay off their card bills on time each month.
1317
The SMMT said the ratio of electric vehicles to each public charger had reached 16 to one, and only one new charger was installed for every 52 plug-in cars registered so far this year.
1318
In the death of Williamson, Andrew Cox, the acting senior coroner for Cornwall and Isles of Scilly, wrote in his report: “My current cause for concern is to ensure that there is an adequate level of coastguard cover around the Cornish coastline.
1319
Nigeria’s inclusion on England’s red list after cases of the Omicron Covid variant were linked to travel from the country has been condemned as “travel apartheid”.
1320
Vaccinated border residents will be able to obtain a border pass – valid for 14 days – that will allow them to move freely across the border without the need for a PCR test.
1321
“I know people have said to me personally some of them haven’t seen their grandkids for the first time,” Palaszczuk said.
Our children have gone to school.
1322
Australia’s travel ban to several southern African countries due to the outbreak of the Omicron variant has been labelled as discriminatory by a senior diplomat.
1323
To “turbocharge” the vaccine programme covering schoolchildren, Labour is calling for better use of community pharmacies, walk-in clinics and pop-up clinics to make it easier for families to get children jabbed and for parents to get booster doses.
1324
Prof Mark Woolhouse, a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (Spi-M), said the move was too late to make a “material difference”.
Despite threat posed by the variant, however, vaccines would still be “very, very good” against it, he said.
These are very early days.”
1325
Pfizer has to date pledged 40m doses out of global production to Covax, the UN-backed initiative delivering vaccines for low income countries.
1326
“The government’s antivirals taskforce was launched to identify treatments for UK patients who have been exposed to Covid-19 to take at home, stopping the infection spreading and speeding up recovery time.
1327
Australian children aged five to 11 could receive the Pfizer vaccine against Covid as soon as 10 January, following provisional approval by the country’s drugs regulator.
1328
Even if Omicron is less likely to cause severe illness, it may still cause more hospitalisations and put further strain on the health service, because so many more people will become infected,” said Prof Rowland Kao, of Edinburgh University.
1329
New polling for the IPPR thinktank, which asked the same question at the end of last month as Gallup posed 77 years ago, shows that today 63% of people now believe their politicians are mainly in it for themselves.
1330
All international arrivals to the UK will be required to take a pre-departure Covid-19 test to tackle the new Omicron variant, the health secretary has announced.
1331
While Sydney’s economy is recovering from this year’s prolonged Covid lockdown, business fortunes have been mixed in western Sydney, particularly in the 12 LGAs that faced the harshest restrictions.
1332
Qantas Qantas passengers are able to change their travel date or request a flight credit, provided they do this before the day of departure, and can choose new travel dates within 12 months.
1333
The Australian government says Covid vaccines could soon be rolled out for children as young as five as Victoria reported nine deaths and the NSW chief health officer, Kerry Chant, warned of “an uptick” in Omicron cases in metropolitan Sydney.
1334
UK ministers have been warned they cannot wait for new research on the Omicron variant and must act now to prevent a potentially “very significant wave of infections” that risks overwhelming the NHS.
1335
Sturgeon said: “The number of Omicron cases now being reported in Scotland is rising, and cases are no longer all linked to a single event, but to several different sources including a Steps concert at the Hydro on 22 November. “This confirms
1336
Cover-More also covers additional accommodation expenses if you get Covid before your booked return flight, or on the first leg of your return journey, delaying your return to Australia, and will automatically extend your travel insurance at no cost until you can return.
1337
But experts hoped Australia’s high vaccination rates, booster rollout, warm summer, and readiness to reintroduce restrictions like masks if cases escalated would allow a more normal way of life into the new year.
1338
I came round the front and I said, “If you’re going to be treating my staff like that I’m going to have to call the police.”
It’s a lot of stress.
1339
‘Doctors have to tell them it’s too late’ A nurse in a regional New South Wales hospital says it’s frustrating and upsetting seeing sick, unvaccinated people.
1340
GPs will also undertake fewer medication reviews with people who are taking drugs on a long-term basis to help manage their condition and reduce the danger of their health deteriorating, for example blood pressure tablets to reduce the risk of a heart attack or stroke.
1341
The first case of the Omicron variant has been detected in Wales, in the Cardiff and Vale University Health Board area, the Welsh government has announced.
1342
Duncan Thompson, the head of Shawlands primary school in Barnsley, said he had shifted the nativity play online after half-term since he felt “an early, clear decision” would be better for parents, staff and children.
1343
So the office Christmas party was a big deal.
It was light at the end of the tunnel.
“Otherwise it’s like that light at the end of the tunnel has gone.
1344
Germany’s fourth wave of the pandemic could reach a “sad peak” in intensive care units around the country around Christmas, the outgoing health minister, Jens Spahn, has said as he defended the decision to bar unvaccinated people from many areas of public life.
1345
The bounce-back loan scheme launched in May 2020 and did not include credit checks or fully verify the identity of small businesses applying for loans, the National Audit Office, which scrutinises public-sector spending, said.
1346
The commission’s president, Iain Ross, said in the ruling on Friday that the company’s vaccine mandate was not “a lawful or reasonable direction” mainly due to the mine management’s failure to consult with its employees about whether such a site access requirement was necessary.
1347
A school student in western Sydney is believed to be the first case of community transmission of the Omicron strain of Covid in Australia, as health authorities decide against shortening the interval period for booster shots.
1348
Queensland Health told the Courier-Mail the man, 78, had applied for a border exemption in early November, but he had subsequently cancelled his request.
1349
Forecasts cited by the college from the NHS strategy unit, which carries out NHS analysis, show there could be as many as 230,000 new PTSD referrals between 2020/21 and 2022/23 in England, which suggests a rise of about 77,000 cases a year on average.
1350
Neena Modi, professor of neonatal medicine at Imperial College London, said it was disappointing the report did not highlight the toll Covid has taken on pregnant women who make up a disproportionate number of the women intensive care.
Last month, Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, urged pregnant women to get vaccinated, adding that almost all pregnant women admitted to hospital and intensive care were unvaccinated.
1351
The federal MP Craig Kelly – who has been permanently banned from Facebook and criticised for the online distribution of “seriously misleading” information about Covid-19 vaccines – has been appointed to a parliamentary committee looking into social media and online safety.
1352
At a case management hearing on Friday, Palmer’s barrister, Peter Gray, initially applied for his client to be able to give evidence via video link at the trial, which is due to start on 31 January.
1353
The Advertiser reported that Antic had applied for an exemption to return to South Australia, was initially denied, but on appeal was granted entry on the condition he complete 14 days quarantine in a medi-hotel.
1354
A presumption of publication by the government, and the publication of the content of the Official-Sensitive National Security Risk Assessment except where there is a direct national security risk.
1355
Despite the proportion in hospital of those who are double vaccinated being lower than for the overall population, high coronavirus rates and varying immune responses still lead to thousands of double-vaccinated people being exposed to the coronavirus and ending up in hospital.
1356
Ministers have clashed repeatedly over advice on festivities and mistletoe, with Home Office staff being urged to limit numbers attending Christmas parties in the office and the health secretary contradicting a cabinet colleague to insist “people can snog who they wish”.
1357
Of the 290 independently owned Best Western hotels in the UK, three-quarters have had an increase in Christmas cancellations and 89% have expressed concern about the festive trading period, the group said.
1358
While Davies found the results only equate to about 60 more samples testing negative for the S-gene than would otherwise have been expected, he said the excess is most likely down to Omicron cases and suggested the numbers will probably climb.
1359
Vaccination could become mandatory in Germany from February, Angela Merkel has said, as she announced what her successor as chancellor, Olaf Scholz, described as “a lockdown of the unvaccinated”.
1360
While the number of people eating out remained above levels recorded during the equivalent week in 2019 before the onset of the pandemic, at 111%, the figure was down from a level of 117% in the previous week, according to the figures from the booking platform OpenTable.
1361
The Guardian queried how the list was being managed after a sample taken from the website on Tuesday showed tens of deals priced at £1 or less from companies including !!++0044 Tests and !Covid Testing Direct.com.
1362
England’s biggest theatres including the Royal Opera House, the National and Andrew Lloyd Webber’s sites in the West End have implemented mandatory mask-wearing as owners respond to the threat of the spread of the Omicron Covid variant.
1363
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has authorised Xevudy (sotrovimab), a monoclonal antibody made by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Vir Biotechnology, for people with mild to moderate Covid-19 at high risk of developing severe disease.
1364
The premier has yet to give a date for opening the borders with other states in Australia or allowing international travel, saying that WA will be in a position to ease its border controls “in around a couple of months’ time” when the double dose vaccination rate hits 90%.
1365
The DTA warned that a new privacy assessment would need to be undertaken, legislation might need to be amended, all current users would need to download and re-register through the app, and contact data could not be transferred.
1366
The Queensland Council of Civil Liberties says the state government must release public health directions to end confusion and uncertainty about plans to reopen state borders and bar unvaccinated people from public spaces.
1367
The £400m investment triples Billingham’s cell culture capabilities, increases its gene therapy production capacity tenfold and will add the ability to produce and deliver mRNA technologies in the manufacture of vaccines.
1368
That’s left people like Italian citizen Giorgia Di Girolamo, who is on a bridging visa while applying for a distinguished talent visa, effectively stuck in Australia.
1369
Javid told the BBC on Wednesday that dramatically increasing the number of booster jabs in England was “our new national mission – in terms of the public health of this country, there is nothing more important than this booster programme”.
1370
Under the agreements, the UK will buy 54m more doses from Pfizer/BioNTech and 60m more doses from Moderna.
There remains uncertainty about further health programmes.
1371
Q:
Q:
gives those numbers.
Q: How many vaccination sites are there in England?
” Q: What advantages do pharmacies offer in helping the booster drive?
1372
In the letter, addressed to the WHO director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Harry wrote: “Vaccinating the world is a test of our moral character and we are experiencing a spectacular failure when it comes to global vaccine equity.
1373
Surinder Arora, the chair of the Arora group, said customers had already cancelled events due to take place at the 16 hotels it owns in and around London.
1374
I’m trying to do the right thing for my country and other people, I’m trying to do good.
People are at you, and criticise you and so on, when all you’re trying to do is do your best.
1375
Prof Neil Ferguson, head of the disease outbreak analysis and modelling group at Imperial College London, told MPs on Wednesday that while evolution would drive Covid to spread more easily the virus might not become less dangerous.
1376
The west London airport ran a separate arrivals terminal, which was initially T3 and later T4, for red-list travel between June and the start of November, before travel restrictions were briefly relaxed.
1377
It was the first annual decline in the number of estimated deaths of homeless people since records began in 2013, although statisticians warned difficulties in the collection of death registrations last year mean the figure may be an underestimation.
1378
“Every death from this virus is a tragedy and we have always said there are still lessons to be learned from the pandemic, which is why we have committed to a full public inquiry in spring.”
1379
With eight Omicron cases reported in England on Tuesday, taking the UK total to 22, testing and tracing efforts continue.
1380
The average UK house price rose by 0.9% last month, according to data from the building society Nationwide, after an increase of 0.7% in October, taking the average UK property value to £252,687.
1381
A woman whose parents-in-law both died from Covid contracted at St Basil’s told the inquest her family was traumatised by the way residents were neglected.
1382
A final vote on the Victorian government’s Covid pandemic legislation could still be days away, after upper house MPs sat through the night debating it.
1383
Northern Territory Police have arrested three people who escaped from Darwin’s Howard Springs Covid-19 facility earlier this morning.
1384
The health agency has now identified cases in the east Midlands, east of England, London, and the north-west and is carrying out targeted testing at locations where the positive cases were likely to be infectious.
1385
Galbraith said it was bizarre that the changes announced last month gave vaccinated parents of Australian citizens the ability to travel to Australia, but the same exemption was not afforded to the children of citizens.
1386
Patrick said that Gaetjens “hasn’t lead the public service in a highly professional way” and “has been happy to act as the prime minister’s henchman, covering up all manner of sins and corruption in the government”.
1387
But she added: “There is so far nothing in the wider look-back exercise that Public Health Scotland has undertaken to suggest that community transmission of the new variant is either sustained or widespread.”
1388
“I went to a theatre in London a few days ago, where I was sitting shoulder to shoulder with people, and there I wouldn’t have to wear a mask but on public transport I do,” he said.
1389
Asked about the prospect of Christmas being cancelled, the Sage member Prof Paul Moss told Sky News: “I don’t think we need to worry too much about that at this stage … the measures that we got in place have a good chance of gaining some control here.”
1390
Some Tory MPs fear that tougher Covid rules that come in to force in England on Tuesday are a “gateway to lockdown over Christmas”, as they prepare to mount a small rebellion in the vote on new measures to tackle the Omicron variant.
1391
We’re going to keep moving forward into Christmas and into 2022 and we’re going to open safely and we’re going to stay safely open.”
1392
More countries have imposed travel restrictions on visitors from other parts of the world in order to try to contain the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, as China pledged to send 600m vaccine doses to Africa.
1393
” The Sustainable Australia party MP Clifford Hayes was also in talks to support the bill, but said on Tuesday that while the government had negotiated in good faith and made “commendable” amendments, “the final position of the government was not enough to garner my support”.
1394
He said the vaccine could be used to protect against new Covid variants, including Omicron, although it is still not known if that variant is already protected by existing vaccines.
1395
A senior government source told the Guardian ministers were aiming for a “significant acceleration” from the current 2.4m boosters a week to about 3.5m or 500,000 a day – a return to the huge national effort seen in the early days of the vaccination campaign.
1396
The dictionary’s managing editor, Victoria Morgan, said: “Strollout really just shows the people’s dissatisfaction with the vaccine rollout.
1397
The new requirement to wear a face covering in certain places can be enforced by a constable, a police community support officer, a TfL officer, staff of public transport operators, or any person designated by the secretary of state for the purposes of this regulation.
1398
A third dose and booster are not necessarily the same – for example, if someone is given the Moderna vaccine, they will get a full dose for a third injection, but usually a half dose for a booster.
1399
He urged the public to wear masks to protect themselves and those working in stores and added: “The government must be clear and consistent on it being mandatory and that shopworkers are not expected to enforce the law on face coverings.”
1400
The watchdog said adults aged 18 to 39 should be offered booster jabs and recommended cutting the gap between second and third doses from at least six months to at least three months.
1401
If you are fully vaccinated you must: complete a passenger locator form – to be completed in the 48 hours before you arrive in England self-isolate take a PCR test before the end of day 2 after you arrive (lateral flow tests will not be accepted).
1402
Omicron, which is believed to be more transmissible than dominant Covid-19 variants and has the potential to evade vaccines, was first reported to the World Health Organization from South Africa on 24 November.
1403
Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, and Mark Drakeford, the Welsh first minister, also urged Johnson to host an urgent meeting of Cobra, the UK government’s emergency planning committee, to agree a common approach.
1404
Unions, however, said the government needed to ensure there was credible enforcement and that bus drivers and rail staff were not asked to force passengers to wear masks.
1405
His research shows that in the year to the end of September, £513bn was spent in the UK housing market – the first time the figure has exceeded £500bn and £170bn more than pre-pandemic levels.
1406
While trust in scientists had increased around the world since 2018, the portion who said they trusted scientists a lot jumped 15 percentage points in Australia and New Zealand, compared with nine points elsewhere.
1407
Australian citizens, permanent residents and their immediate family members arriving from these countries would need to go into “immediate supervised quarantine for 14 days subject to jurisdictional arrangements”.
1408
He said: “We’ve been clear since we first knew about this new variant that we would expect to see the number of cases rise, and I think what we’re seeing in Scotland reflects that.
1409
“What we do know of the two cases that have so far been diagnosed in Australia – and there may be more, but at the moment, two – both young people, both from South Africa, both fully vaccinated, asymptomatic.
1410
On Friday, a new Covid-19 variant first identified in southern Africa was revealed, and by Saturday, the World Health Organization (WHO) had named it Omicron and declared it a “variant of concern”.
1411
“All events remained relatively peaceful, with limited low-level conflict,” it reads.
“They seem to recognize the nature of the event, and who’s coming to the event,” she said.
1412
The plans are likely to involve an end to all free PCR testing from March except for 1.3m of the most vulnerable people, as well as in hospitals and high-risk settings, and an end to free asymptomatic testing with lateral flow tests (LFTs).
1413
The prime minister, Fumio Kishida, is expected to announce later on Thursday an increase in daily arrivals from 3,500 to 5,000, as well as a reduction in quarantine from a week to three days for people with a negative test result and proof they have had a booster shot.
1414
“We all share the same goal – to get to a point where Covid-19 is no longer disrupting our daily lives, a time when it won’t be a constant crisis – rather something we can prevent, protect against, and treat,” Walensky said.
1415
The decision to extend the offer of Covid vaccination to younger children was reached after months of intense deliberation about the benefits and risks by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI).
1416
“Most concerning, they found that among babies with Covid-19, who were admitted to the ICU, the sickest babies, 88% were born to mothers who were not vaccinated before or during pregnancy.
1417
“There are some very clear differences between how a largely – although not wholly – white protest group is being policed here, and how, for example, Black and Indigenous people are policed when they’re exercising their right to peaceful protest,” he said.
1418
With so many LFTs and PCR tests being done at the moment, some people will get a run of false positives and false negatives, even though the statistical probability of this is low.
1419
The Lego Foundation – the non-profit arm that owns 25% of the Danish company – is offering the 900m Danish kroner (£100m or $140m) prize fund to help children “in crisis” and address the loss of access to services and support, accelerated by the pandemic.
1420
“There aren’t many members of the public that don’t think that Boris Johnson was involved in parties,” he said.
So there’s a big job of work to be done now,” he said.
1421
“There is also evidence that unvaccinated people with long Covid who were subsequently vaccinated had, on average, reduced long Covid symptoms, or fewer long Covid symptoms than those who remained unvaccinated,” the review said.
1422
The emergency legislation includes measures intended to put immense pressure on protesters, including the possibility of losing their commercial vehicle licenses, but none of the camp members said they were prepared to leave.
1423
Lawyers representing the Runnymede Trust and Good Law Project suggested that people “outside the tight circle” in which senior Conservative politicians and their friends moved were not being given opportunities.
He said the government had a “policy or practice” of “making appointments to posts critical to the pandemic response” without adopting any, or any sufficient, “fair open competitive processes”.
1424
Asked what he would say to anti-vaccination activists who claim he supports their cause, Djokovic said: “Everyone has the right to choose to act or say whatever they feel is appropriate for them and I have never said that I’m part of that movement.”
1425
Ministers are deciding whether to accept the recommendation, with a decision coming in just over a week when Boris Johnson is due to outline his long-term strategy for Covid.
1426
They claimed they would not leave until the prime minister Jacinda Ardern committed to scrapping vaccine mandates, but as in Canada the vaccine seemed to be serving as a Trojan horse for a range of other grievances.
1427
To avoid being hit with large unexpected bills, Nicole also pays £17 a month for insurance and a further £17 a month for a healthcare plan her vet offers.
The biggest expense was their hutch, which cost £185
1428
Common law writs or common law courts do not exist, nor do “common law constables”, which some activists have been “training” in order to form physical barriers against what they wrongly believe are the “unlawful” actions of the police and other legitimate authorities.
1429
In a clear signal officers are investigating if the prime minister personally broke the law, a No 10 spokesperson said: “We can confirm the prime minister has received a questionnaire from the Metropolitan police.
1430
The province of Ontario has invoked a state of emergency and says it will use threat of hefty fines, jail time and vehicle licence seizures to end a blockade that has crippled trade between Canada and the United States.
The injunction was due to come into effect at 7pm in order to give protestors time to leave.
“It’s time to leave.
And it’s time to do so peacefully.”
1431
But Friday, the FDA reversed course and said it had become clear it needed to wait for data on how well that third shot works for this age group.
1432
In Belgium the price of an antigen self-test sold in pharmacies is around €6-€8 (£5-£7), more expensive than in neighbouring countries, such as France and the Netherlands, although they are available in Belgian supermarkets for about €3.
1433
As more people return to physical workplaces, fears are growing that new owners may try to sell on dogs on to inappropriate homes or simply abandon them.
1434
Cases were shooting up and I and my colleagues were preparing for another Covid wave like those we had seen with Alpha, then Delta.
I love the NHS.
1435
Gordon Brown has urged rich countries to consider “extraordinary measures” similar to those taken during the global financial crisis to increase developing nations’ access to Covid vaccines, calling on governments to fill a $16bn (£11.8bn) funding gap within weeks.
1436
Hedge fund manager Mark Hillery had donated £7m over the past seven years but publicly criticised what he called the “ridiculous and ineffective” coronavirus rules in place at the university.
1437
Downing Street has pledged to reveal if Boris Johnson is fined by police for attending any parties while Covid restrictions were in force, but the prime minister refused to rule out staying on even he is found to have broken the law.
1438
Africa is transitioning out of the pandemic phase of its Covid-19 outbreak and moving towards a situation where it will be managing the virus long term, the World Health Organization’s regional head for Africa has said.
1439
The council said it had received demands from frustrated Wellingtonians that they start issuing tickets and an outpouring of support – a rare occurrence for parking wardens, who are not always viewed with universal affection by residents.
1440
It came as the Met said it would look again at a quiz held in No 10 in December 2020 after a new photo emerged of Boris Johnson at the event, featuring an open bottle of prosecco and staff wearing tinsel.
1441
Concerns that hamsters might also be capable of infecting humans first surfaced when a 23-year-old worker at the Little Boss pet shop in Hong Kong tested positive for Covid on 15 January – the city’s first Delta variant diagnosis for more than three months.
1442
At that time, the message Moscow sought to portray was of close and friendly ties between the two leaders, even if they were sitting shouting distance apart.
1443
Luca Profili, the mayor of Civita di Bagnoregio, a hamlet perched on a plateau of volcanic rock surrounded by steep ravines at risk of landslides, told the Guardian he was disappointed. “€20m for one village is too much,” he said.
1444
The Fairfax county school board, which is Paterson’s home district and the largest in Virginia, quickly announced it would continue requiring masks for all students, and a week later Fairfax joined six other school districts in a lawsuit against the executive order.
1445
Ten million jobs in creative industries worldwide were lost in 2020 as a result of the Covid pandemic, and the increasing digitisation of cultural output means it is harder than ever for artists to make a living, a Unesco report has said.
1446
Protesters against Covid vaccine mandates have defied government calls for them to end a 10-day occupation of Canada’s capital, a day after the city’s mayor declared a state of emergency and promised to “get the city back”.
1447
NHS England has been formulating an “elective recovery plan” – delayed by the onset of Omicron – to get waiting times closer to the 18-week maximum enshrined in the NHS constitution.
1448
Ottawa police have called in backup from other police forces around the province, but the chief, Peter Sloly, has confessed that they are woefully outnumbered.
1449
Lesley Horn, who worked in the the Future Inn hotel in Plymouth for two months told the Guardian she feared people were being “warehoused” in temporary care hotels, which health officials have been instructed to use amid an acute shortage of care packages.
1450
Saffron Cordery, the deputy chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents NHS trusts in England, said the plan should be published as quickly as possible to help the health service tackle the 6 million-strong backlog, which is set to rise further.
1451
The highest spend per child in 2020-21 was by NHS Isle of Wight CCG at £165, followed by Norfolk and Waveney (£152) and west London (£138).
1452
In an interview with the Observer, Sir Charles Walker, a former vice-chairman of the 1922 Committee of backbench Conservative MPs, implored the prime minister to go of his own accord in the national interest, and likened events in the Tory party to a Greek tragedy.
1453
Iran, with a population of about 85 million, has reported more than 6.5 million infections and more than 132,500 coronavirus-related deaths since the pandemic began.
1454
Asked about the 2019 intake of red wall MPs, she started talking about a “Martin Vickers”, who she said is “up in the far north of England in South Tees” and recently appeared on Channel 4 News in support of the prime minister.
1455
Asked whether Johnson needs to change, Dorries launched an impassioned defence of the prime minister, saying: “I’d be cautious of asking the prime minister who’s delivered us the largest majority since Margaret Thatcher to change.”
1456
The latest official figures on Saturday showed 52.5 million people have had their second vaccine dose in Turkey, which has a population of about 85 million.
1457
Tobias Ellwood The MP for Bournemouth East and chair of the defence select committee said Johnson had lost his support, calling on him to “call a vote of confidence rather than waiting for the inevitable 54 letters to be eventually submitted”.
1458
I only got fined £30, and my mum was nice enough to pay it, but there will have been people who got a £6,000 fine who are students, who are in debt, yet the people at the top of the country are doing this.”
1459
Labour’s deputy leader, Angela Rayner, told the newspaper: “The Downing Street photographer is funded by the taxpayer, and the public have every right to see the photos they pay to have taken, including any of the prime minister’s birthday party.
1460
The action recommended includes a global project to identify wildlife viruses to highlight hotspots of danger, better enforcement of controls on hunting and trade in wildlife, and cutting deforestation.
1461
How are reinfections counted?
Since 31 January reinfections have been included in the daily reported case numbers for England and Northern Ireland.
1462
Prof Susan Michie, director of the centre for behaviour change at University College London, changed her mind on the usefulness of masks Early on, my reading was that the evidence on the effectiveness of face masks in community settings was equivocal.
1463
Amid regular contact between the two politicians via WhatsApp, Paterson also appeared, after an article in the Guardian, to ask Hancock to “kill once and for all” the suggestion that Randox had been awarded a contract because he was being paid by the firm.
1464
Thirteen per cent of 11- to 16-year-olds and 24% of 17- to 23-year-olds felt their lives had been made “much worse” by coronavirus restrictions.
1465
Tensions in societies around the world over the current Covid situation are going to be very difficult to handle, one of Britain’s most senior scientific figures has warned.
1466
Europe could soon enter a “long period of tranquillity” that amounts to a “ceasefire” in the pandemic thanks to the less severe Omicron variant, high levels of immunity and the arrival of warmer spring weather, the World Health Organization has said.
1467
“I was very motivated by the idea that, if there was a reason we were still sick, then I could fix it,” Assaf said.
“It causes trauma,” Davis said.
1468
The masks are designed to be worn under a regular mask that covers the mouth, which can be removed when dining out or drinking with other people.
1469
The study found that the infection first appears in the throat and that infectious virus peaks about five days into infection, by which point the nose has a much higher viral load than the throat.
1470
Vaccines also cut the chances of getting Covid at all, which means children would be less likely to develop potential complications such as type 1 diabetes, long Covid or “outcomes that we don’t know about yet from getting a Covid infection as a child”, Matthias said.
1471
When the pandemic started, I thought people writing this advice didn’t understand our lives; now, two years in, I know it’s that they don’t think our lives are valuable.
1472
Health workers on the frontline of India’s Covid vaccination programme say people are being officially registered as double vaccinated without receiving both doses because of pressure to meet government targets.
1473
With the Omicron surge yet to reach its peak, and Japan’s government showing little enthusiasm for lifting its travel ban, few expect foreign tourists to return to Kyoto soon.
1474
It is time that we were paid in line with inflation, year on year, to reflect the continued and sustained hard work of our profession.”
1475
They were asked about nine different adverse childhood experiences (Aces) as well as low trust in NHS Covid-19 information, whether they backed the removal of social distancing and mandatory face coverings, and breaking Covid rules and vaccine hesitancy.
1476
Sue Gray’s investigation into lockdown parties this week revealed several events that had not previously been publicised, including a gathering on 14 January 2021 “on the departure of two No 10 private secretaries”.
1477
Tiley said that, as well as the problem of waning immunity, the low prevalence of the virus made it harder to predict the best candidate for next season’s flu vaccine.
1478
Akshay Patel said he and his family had lost faith in the system after his mother, Bina, 56, died waiting nearly an hour for an ambulance to arrive in October while she suffered a heart attack and stroke.
1479
The island is the only country vaccinating toddlers as young as two against the disease, and more than 95% of two- to 18-year-olds have now been fully vaccinated, according to the ministry of public health.
1480
Absolutely not, he says: “Staying in a job that isn’t working for you, working for free, working for credits on your résumé, not standing up for your rights, not having the guts to turn a job down, for fear you’ll never work again?
1481
A string of former cabinet ministers – and Johnson’s predecessor as prime minister – lined up in the Commons to publicly unleash their views on a Downing Street operation criticised by Sue Gray’s report for its “serious failure” to observe strict lockdown laws.
1482
Boris Johnson has been left desperately trying to shore up his premiership after the Sue Gray report as detectives were revealed to be investigating 300 photos and 12 events in Downing Street, including a party in the prime minister’s private flat.
1483
A senior executive in a trust where 15% of staff were vaccine refuseniks said: “Undoubtedly it will help protect services by avoiding a significant loss of unjabbed staff.
1484
However, whereas gene therapy is designed to permanently alter an individual’s genes, mRNA vaccines issue instructions to protein-making machinery located in the cytoplasm, which degrade after about 72 hours.
1485
Whitehall sources said Gray needed permission from Johnson to publish a fuller version, but suggested that in providing an “update” on Monday she was making clear that it was not the version she hoped would be eventually published.
1486
While saying it was “sensible” to hold outdoor staff meetings in the garden, Gray said the garden “was also used for gatherings without clear authorisation or oversight”.
1487
She is now chief executive of Sheffield city council, where her future is uncertain. 8) 17 December 2020: No 10 leaving event Another previously unknown gathering mentioned in the report.
1488
An F1 spokesperson said: “Formula One management will require all travelling personnel to be fully vaccinated and will not request exemptions.”
1489
It will be a sure sign that No 10 believes he has weathered the storm, if the prime minister returns to his bumbling old ways – but for the next perilous few days, his every utterance is likely to be carefully controlled, and the Downing Street podium kept firmly under wraps
1490
The Met asked Gray last week to make “minimal reference” in her inquiry report to matters its officers were investigating, which are expected to be the most serious allegations.
1491
The names of Boris Johnson’s aides interviewed by detectives investigating parties in Downing Street may not be released because of police policy, even if they are being treated as suspects or issued with fines for breaking the lockdown rules they helped make.
1492
“Often times I have no idea what I’m gonna talk about until I sit down and talk to people.
“I am gonna do my best in the future to balance things out.”
1493
When the pandemic first hit the world, Zimbabwean stone sculptor David Ngwerume took his hammer and chisel and started work on the first of a collection of Covid-inspired pieces.
1494
Rogan, a comedian and host of The Joe Rogan Experience, has sparked controversy for repeatedly spreading misinformation about Covid on his show, including the conspiracy theory that hospitals are financially incentivised to record Covid as cause of death.
1495
Though Covid cases have already peaked in some countries, scientists are now tracking a rise in cases caused by a close cousin of Omicron known as BA.2, which is starting to outcompete BA.1 in parts of Europe and Asia.
1496
It means Portugal will have a stable government to oversee the application of EU pandemic recovery funds.
It’s an increased responsibility and it means to govern with and for all Portuguese.”
1497
Anyone who tests positive inside the Olympics bubble is isolated in a hospital or quarantine hotel to try to prevent the virus from spreading to other participants.
1498
She added: “The government has misspent billions of pounds of public money on vital PPE for frontline staff that is either inadequate or will never be used.
1499
Speaking to New York magazine, he called it “an unpleasant but necessary job” and said it was legitimate to remove a prime minister who had won a big election victory if they were not up to the job.
1500
Under the amendment, upon the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic, the health and social care secretary would immediately have to waive intellectual property rights relating to vaccines and medicines where necessary to combat the pandemic internationally.
1501
Severe weight loss and kidney failure are some of the impacts of smell and taste distortions which leave people unable to eat or drink things they loved, like coffee or bacon, because they smell like rotting flesh or sewage.
1502
The latest figures show the UK had done 424.89m tests by 20 January, compared with 223.19m in France, 160m in Italy, about 99m in Germany and 79.8m in Spain.
1503
India has also recorded nearly 500,000 deaths, the world’s highest confirmed fatality count after the United States and Brazil – though studies have suggested the country’s true toll could be up to 10 times higher.
1504
Georgie Nightingall, the founder of Trigger Conversations, says she has seen a sharp rise in uptake for her conversational training courses – in which she teaches people how to improve their small talk – with demand quadrupling within a year.
1505
”Former director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, was more circumspect but could see no justifiable reason for diluting Gray’s report over what appears to be a series of fixed-penalty notices.
1506
I think that in a few days, it will be like brushing your teeth,” the Russian ice hockey player Anton Slepyshev told the RIA news agency.
1507
We didn’t always have it easy but I was from a family where I was supported to read, where education was valued and encouraged and I look back now and feel how fortunate I’ve been.
1508
And then there was an unexpected side-effect of the extra screen time most children will have experienced.
She was really starting to hate the screen time.
1509
The pilot compared three groups: patients diagnosed with long Covid who have normal CT scans, people who had been hospitalised with Covid more than three months previously and were not experiencing long Covid, and a healthy control group.
1510
Gray’s team had been considering sending a redacted version of the report to No 10 or waiting for the Met to conclude its inquiry and then sending the full report.
1511
Several sources said the relationship between Andrews and Perrottet formed around the time the Victoria-NSW border reopened in early November.
1512
Although they have been shown to reduce the amount of virus in the air – in some cases to undetectable levels – such studies have been small, and have not yet proved that air purifiers reduce the risk of infection, to what degree, or how best to deploy them.
1513
Lycett tweeted a parody Gray report with a fake Cabinet Office letterhead, titled: “A summary of my main findings”, captioning his tweet: “BREAKING: Leaked Sue Gray report reveals shocking abuse of rules.
1514
Faced with the fight of his political life, Boris Johnson now risks being held hostage by assertive Tory backbenchers making demands on a range of fronts including national insurance and vaccine mandates.
1515
The BBC is to use disinformation specialists to vet potential Question Time audience members after the programme called for unvaccinated members of the public to take part.
1516
“It [the loop] doesn’t affect how we work much but it affects our lives, especially meals, and life is not as free as outside the loop.
People found to be close contacts and whose jobs can be done by someone else must go the isolation centre for at least 21 days, or leave China within 24 hours of testing negative.
1517
“Not all text messages need to be recorded, but text messages clearly do fall under the EU transparency law and so relevant text messages should be recorded
1518
Barnard Castle is among a number of smaller historic attractions that saw a boom in visitors last year, with several reporting record numbers, English Heritage said.
1519
Boris Johnson says he welcomes police investigation of alleged Downing Street parties – video Johnson claimed he had “absolutely not” been involved in delaying the report, stressing people should wait for the independent inquiries.
1520
What’s changing?
Are the changes safe?
The care minister, Gillian Keegan, said the changes were backed by scientists, and experts largely agree.
1521
Referring to controversial podcasts by Joe Rogan hosted by Spotify, Young said: “They can have Rogan or Young.
The comment was “incorrect”, said Fauci.
1522
Only three of 15 participating pharmacies from the South Western Sydney local health district had any RATs available to concession card holders when contacted by the Guardian this week, with the exact same number replicated in the Western Sydney local health district.
1523
Boris Johnson’s premiership could hang on its findings; Tory MPs have said they want to see what evidence of wrongdoing is dug up by Sue Gray – a senior civil servant known as a ruthless Whitehall enforcer – before deciding whether to call for him to quit.
1524
EasyJet said that while the final three months of last year showed a dramatic improvement on 2020 – easyJet operated 85.6m flights compared with 23.4m – the company missed its load factor forecast as Christmas travel plans were once again disrupted due to the impact of Omicron.
1525
The music streaming platform Spotify is in the process of removing Neil Young’s music after the company refused to take down Joe Rogan’s podcast amid the musician’s objections that it spread vaccine misinformation.
1526
Two members of the Cartes family have been board members of Reljuv, a company owned by Paraíso Verde, and in recent municipal elections, the company’s president, Juan Buker, was heavily involved in election campaigns for candidates backed by Cartes.
1527
Research by the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a campaign group, showed that Mercola’s newsletters made a minimum of $1m a year from charging subscribers an annual fee of $50, with Berenson making at least $1.2m from charging people $60.
1528
France on Tuesday reported a new daily record of 501,635 new cases but, again, while hospital admissions have risen, only about half as many patients are in intensive care as during previous waves, and the number has been falling since 12 January.
1529
Keir Starmer has called in parliament for Boris Johnson to resign immediately for misleading MPs over Downing Street parties, saying the prime minister’s continued attempts to save his career were causing “immense damage to public trust”.
1530
This led to less nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) polluting the air, with Spanish, French and Italian cities experiencing the biggest decreases in NO 2 of 50% to 60% during the period.
1531
New Zealand’s prime minister Jacinda Ardern has said “at no point was I worried about my safety” after her van was chased and forced on to a curb by anti-vaccination protesters.
1532
The prime minister’s ex-chief adviser, Dominic Cummings, had previously warned that officials were deeply uncomfortable with handing over some evidence to the inquiry, believing they could face retribution for damaging information.
1533
A birthday party was held for the prime minister, Boris Johnson, with cake and singing in the cabinet room on 19 June 2020, it emerged on Monday, with up to 30 staff present for Johnson’s 56th birthday under lockdown restrictions.
1534
A physiotherapist, one of the few protesters who was wearing a mask, said she was fearful of losing her job if she refuses to get vaccinated under plans for a mandate for medical staff, due to be introduced next month.
1535
“One of the good things about the 5 February date was it focused the health system’s collective mind on getting ready.
“They’re not getting that information.
1536
When combined with the patient’s age, details of their Covid symptoms and whether or not they had asthma, the antibody signature allowed doctors to predict whether people had a moderate, high or very high risk of developing long-term illness.
1537
The Open Society Foundations (OSF) charitable group said it was filing a formal complaint to the human-rights-focused Council of Europe, alleging that Bulgaria’s government had put lives at risk, possibly leading to thousands of avoidable deaths.
1538
The scale of the number of children who have lost out on their schooling during the pandemic is “nearly insurmountable”, according to a landmark new report.
1539
ITV reported that the prime minister attended the party in the cabinet room at No 10 at 2pm on his 56th birthday, and that the interior designer Lulu Lytle – who was not a member of No 10 staff – was there.
1540
He said it was not “in keeping with the letter or the spirit of the government’s rules for a former minister at DHSC [the Department of Health and Social Care] to contact a minister with responsibilities for health on behalf of a pharmaceutical company which pays him”.
1541
— Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) March 21, 2020 On Monday many people shared their disappointing birthday experiences, including Jo Brannon who said she had had to explain to her six-year-old why “no one was having birthday parties that year”.
1542
“We’ve always been clear fraud is unacceptable and are taking action against those abusing the system, with 150,000 ineligible claims blocked, £500m recovered last year, and the HMRC tax protection taskforce is expected to recover an additional £1bn of taxpayers’ money.
1543
He said it was dangerous for countries to assume Omicron is the last variant or that “we are in the endgame”.
1544
The scientists then ran the same tests on a control group of people who tested negative for Covid antibodies, indicating that they had managed to avoid the virus.
1545
Authorities have asked residents of “risky areas”, including a neighbourhood of Fengtai, not to leave the city, a local government spokesperson said at a news conference on Sunday, adding that Fengtai residents had been asked to avoid mass gatherings.
1546
When Corey Gallagher returned earlier this month to the postal sorting facility where he works and put on an N95 mask, he was shocked when a supervisor demanded he take it off and replace it with a cloth mask.
1547
St Lucia has not been able to hold a homicide trial for two years, because courtrooms are too small to safely seat a jury under Covid rules, the Caribbean nation’s director of public prosecutions has said.
1548
Although the correlation was not “one-to-one,” Calarco said white, higher income families were less likely to live near family, more likely to have two parents working full-time and more often cited demanding workloads.
1549
Dr John Nkengasong, the head of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), said they were planning a programme to attract scientists, doctors and nurses back from the diaspora.
1550
After their father, Jagtar Chopra, was hospitalised with Covid in December 2020, brothers Rav and Raj Chopra were inspired to immunise the local community from their Punjabi grill.
1551
Pressure is building on the Metropolitan police from Tory MPs who want the force to investigate Downing Street’s lockdown parties regardless of the findings of the Sue Gray report this week.
1552
Taiwan has reported a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with a cluster among workers at a factory threatening authorities’ tenuous control of an Omicron outbreak on the eve of Lunar New Year.
1553
“It’s been two years of wasting time, waiting for Japan to open its borders.
“If Japan doesn’t open its borders this year I’m going to have to look elsewhere.”
1554
An Irishman who refused to wear a Covid mask during a flight from Dublin to New York and exposed his rear end to a flight attendant faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted of assault, the US justice department said on Friday.
1555
The removal of restrictions will be a relief for many pubs and restaurants hit by the 8pm curfew imposed at Christmas, but too late for those that did not survive the earlier 20-month-long restrictions on hospitality that were lifted in October 2021.
1556
Why did the prime minister order an inquiry?
Boris Johnson ordered Case to investigate because he was coming under political and public pressure over the parties.
1557
Labour and the Liberal Democrats called on Friday for the report to be published along with its accompanying evidence – including emails and witness accounts – to give full transparency around more than 15 alleged parties under investigation by Gray, a senior civil servant.
1558
It is unclear how the “drive-in” vote will work, but according to reports in the Italian press, electors could either cast their votes from a booth set up in the car park, or from their car.
1559
” West said that indications that the government would allow the legal requirement to self-isolate to lapse did not necessarily mean that people would jump the gun and change their behaviour in advance of this rule change.
1560
I really do not feel that No 10 needs any encouragement on this level.” Emin said Boris Johnson had told her he liked the work being in No 10, but added: “I want it taken down and this government, I will tell you what they need, they need compassion.
1561
I don’t trust this decision has anything to do with the science,” she added.
Others said they have made the decision for themselves already.
1562
Epidemiologist and public health prof Michael Baker says New Zealand’s “strategic advantage is that we can delay the inevitable.” “The turn of phrase ‘delaying the inevitable’ [makes it sound] as though: why bother?
1563
Dr Chaand Nagpaul, chair of the British Medical Association, said ending plan B measures rapidly could create a rebound in still-high infections and “risks creating a false sense of security” with the NHS still under crippling pressure.
1564
The company is developing a peptide, which inhibits the coronavirus from infecting the human cell, and it expects to launch clinical trials in Britain this summer, Loncarevic said.
1565
A Czech folk singer died after she deliberately contracted Covid to obtain a health pass that would have allowed her to visit venues blocked to those without proof of vaccination or recent recovery from an infection, her family has said.
1566
Melanie Lynch, the head of Herstory.ie, the group that started the St Brigid’s Day campaign, wrote to the taoiseach to argue that Brigid’s “healing powers and compassion for the sick and poor” was a reason to mark the day publicly.
1567
I felt like there was a light at the end of the tunnel, especially with the vaccine.
“I felt like there was a light at the end of the tunnel, especially with the vaccine.
1568
A worker at a warehouse supplying Australian supermarkets says managers were not prepared for the Omicron onslaught, resulting in long shifts and stress among workers covering for absent colleagues due to the pandemic.
1569
”Some shows have covers or “swings” – performers offstage who can cover a wide range of parts in the ensemble, as opposed to understudies, who are part of the ensemble and can step up to play leads or supporting roles.
1570
Boris Johnson denies Cummings' claims he was warned about Downing St party – video Tory MPs said colleagues increasingly believed Johnson was more likely than not to face a confidence ballot, probably after the Gray report is published.
1571
The use of “implicitly” ties into this narrative of a hard-working prime minister used to seeing colleagues regularly meet outside for work in the May sunshine and automatically assuming this post-6pm gathering, even with bring-your-own-booze drinks, must be the same thing.
1572
When Dr Prit Buttar, a retired GP, decided to break social distancing rules and offer his embrace to a bereaved woman, it was a gesture of core humanity.
1573
In addendum to an earlier post on his Substack blog on Monday, Cummings argued that Johnson’s defence of his attendance at the “bring your own booze” party in the Downing Street garden on 20 May 2020 – he believed it was a work meeting – was a lie.
But Team Johnson will know two things: that Cummings is not renowned as a reliable witness, and that he has a track record of promising evidence that never materialises.
1574
On Monday, Johnson’s former senior aide Dominic Cummings accused the prime minister of lying when No 10 denied the prime minister had been warned against allowing a “bring your own booze” garden party during lockdown.
1575
The lord chief justice, Lord Burnett, sitting with Lord Justice Coulson and Lady Justice Carr, found that the original judgment was an “unprecedented outcome”.
1576
With India’s Omicron-driven third wave firmly under way, the New Delhi government has, along with other restrictions, limited wedding guests to 20, dealing a huge blow to India’s traditional wedding season, which runs from November to March.
1577
The event was organised by Johnson’s principal private secretary (PPS), Martin Reynolds, who told people to “bring your own booze” – but No 10 denies that the prime minister saw the emailed invitation to about 100 staff.
1578
The investigation follows a complaint by the Labour peer George Foulkes on 6 January, after the Guardian reported that leaked files appear to suggest Lady Mone and her husband, the Isle of Man-based financier Douglas Barrowman, were secretly involved in the company, PPE Medpro.
1579
Downing Street has said Boris and Carrie Johnson followed Covid guidance when the prime minister was “commuting” from Chequers to No 10 during the first lockdown in 2020 – but declined to answer further questions, including whether the pair held social events.
1580
It was taken down, there was an acknowledgement of wrongdoing if you like.
“I trusted my secretary general and I felt that clearly, what happened shouldn’t have happened.
1581
As a GP trainee working in A&E last year I made an error at the end of a long shift.
The consultant radiologist I work as a consultant radiologist in a district general hospital.
1582
“Fatigue has been a major issue in the NHS for a long time … and with staff now further exhausted by two years of the pandemic, it is a critical issue for both staff wellbeing and patient safety.
1583
The advisory on overseas packages was issued after authorities claimed that a recent Omicron infection detected in Beijing came from an international package sent from Canada.
1584
Sarah Saul, the co-founder of parents group SafeEdforAll, said some schools were rejecting the free filters because of insufficient government guidance.
1585
According to the report, global unemployment will be 207m, a smaller drop from the 214m in 2021 than previously expected and well above the 186m reported in 2019.
1586
Dystopia-core can also be seen on TikTok, where the DIY trend of draping thinly textured clothes over one another to create an angular, futuristic look has been gaining popularity.
1587
Some people unwittingly will then get immunocompromised people sick”, leading to hospitalization and death.
They still require a lot of time in the hospital.”
1588
Doctors at the Royal Preston expect patient numbers to rise again in the coming week due to people mixing and going on holiday around the new year.
1589
The union organisation said workers on low or no sick pay face the “impossible choice” of self-isolating and facing hardship, or putting food on the table but potentially spreading the virus.
1590
Taking the concept of uniform as their stimuli, Prada and Simons elevated boiler suits in silk tech, leather and cotton, and blurred rose-print – replacing “the traditional historical shirt/tie/bow tie and giv[ing] a new energy and reality, a younger attitude also,” said Simons.
1591
Angela Rayner, the Labour deputy leader, said this showed that Johnson was lying when he told MPs last week that when he attended the 20 May gathering, he thought it was a work event.
1592
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has said he was not breaching the rules in a photograph of him drinking a beer with staff in a constituency office last year, and that there was “no comparison” with the prime minister’s recent conduct.
1593
“Family units are connected to many other people as well, and if they don’t have contact with extended family, friends, peers, then that family’s own emotional regulation gets disrupted.
1594
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said on Sunday that he believed Johnson had broken the law by attending a party at Downing Street on 20 May 2020 and then lied about it.
1595
It has taken two years of research for the first antivirals to be approved, with drugs becoming available more than a year after the first Covid vaccines were given in the UK.
1596
Powell said he had high regard for Gray, but it was “totally inappropriate” for the inquiry to be conducted by a civil servant reporting to the prime minister.
1597
“They’ve got to know the difference between work and a party,” he said.
It is like watching one of those nature programmes where the animal is trapped and we know how it ends
1598
On my hands.
The Downing Street Christmas party coincided with the day my father was admitted to hospital with Covid, unable to breathe.
1599
“Yes, particularly in places like New York City, Omicron is peaking, but I think we have to be very careful not to confuse peaking with a low,” said Dr Celine Gounder, an infectious disease specialist and epidemiologist at New York University.
1600
We’ve lost so many businesses and we will continue to until these conditions improve Patricia O’Callaghan
They’ve reopened at what was going to be the boom time.
1601
Opperman and his wife Flora’s newborn twin boys, Teddy and Rafe, died the following month.
I feel pretty emotional that I wasn’t able to support my wife and kids.”
1602
She said she and her family were “devastated” by the death of her baby, and urged everyone eligible to take up the offer of jabs.
1603
The Chinese capital, Beijing, has reported its first locally transmitted case of Omicron coronavirus variant, state media reported on Saturday, less than three weeks before the Beijing Olympic Winter Games.
1604
Indonesia reported 1,054 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest daily increase in three months, as the government braces for a new wave of coronavirus infections driven by the spread of the Omicron variant.
1605
Responding to questions after his speech, Starmer said the revelations about coronavirus rule breaches in Downing Street had exacerbated issues people were facing with their mental wellbeing.
1606
I feel pretty emotional that I wasn’t able to support my wife and kids.
And I frankly think that he’s done a good job delivering certain things.
1607
The Indian biotechnology and biopharmaceutical company Biological E has produced the country’s first locally developed Covid-19 vaccine in partnership with the Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development at Baylor College of Medicine.
1608
Australia has likely neared the peak of its Omicron wave, authorities said on Saturday, while warning daily infections would linger near record levels for the next few weeks after more than 100,000 cases were reported for a fourth straight day.
1609
Kate Josephs, who is now chief executive of Sheffield city council, said she was “truly sorry” for the event on 17 December – one day before No 10 held its Christmas party.
1610
Tom, 40, a deputy headteacher in Essex who leads his secondary school’s Covid response, said staff and student absences have been at their highest this term since the start of the pandemic.
1611
After 70 years on the throne, every aspect of the relationship between the monarch and her prime ministers must surely have become deeply, even sometimes wearyingly, familiar to Elizabeth II.
1612
The advice comes as ministers face pressure from some Tory MPs to scrap all so-called plan B restrictions in England when they are next reviewed, on 26 January, with officials stressing more data is needed before any decisions are made.
1613
Novak Djokovic’s supporters in Serbia have reacted furiously to Australia’s decision to cancel the world tennis No 1’s visa for a second time, but the government has yet to respond officially and previously vociferous politicians have stayed quiet.
1614
This was the week in which the Tory party – from cabinet ministers down to grassroots associations – started to believe that the end was nigh for Boris Johnson’s premiership.
1615
The government is in dispute over millions of surgical gowns supplied by the PPE business awarded £203m contracts via the fast-track “VIP lane” after a referral by the Conservative peer Michelle Mone, it has emerged.
1616
Fashion-conscious Italian police are in revolt after receiving batches of pink face masks to wear on duty, arguing that the “eccentric” colour is ill-matched with their uniforms.
1617
James Slack, Johnson’s former head of communications, issued his own apology on Friday after it was reported that one of the 16 April events was a leaving party to mark his exit as he left to take up a post as deputy editor of the Sun.
1618
A total of 270 US doctors, scientists, healthcare professionals and professors have written an open letter to streaming company Spotify, expressing concern about medical misinformation on The Joe Rogan Experience podcast, listed as the platform’s most popular program.
1619
Parents are still worried that they may bring children, pay tuition fees only for schools to be closed again after a few weeks.
1620
Though some lockdown restrictions were relaxed in England on 12 April, there were no changes to the rules on social contact and people were still instructed to maintain a distance from each other of 2 metres.
1621
According to the Daily Telegraph, the event in honour of James Slack, now deputy editor of the Sun, was one of two social events in No 10 on the evening of 16 April, the day before Prince Philip’s funeral, while indoor social mixing was still barred.
1622
The total number of billionaires in the Asia-Pacific region grew by almost a third from 803 in March 2020 to 1,087 by November last year, and their collective wealth increased by three-quarters (74%), the report said.
1623
“The climate crisis is hitting people here earlier and much harder than the people of the global north,” said Chikondi Chabvuta, advocacy lead for Care International in Malawi.
1624
Hillsong church will not be fined by police over a New South Wales youth camp where congregants were filmed singing and dancing, despite the state’s health minister saying the event was “clearly in breach of both the spirit and intent” of public health orders.
1625
One of the events last April marked the departure from government of James Slack, who was the prime minister’s official spokesperson under both Theresa May and Johnson, before becoming Johnson’s director of communications, according to the Telegraph.
1626
Gray’s report into Green, and the summary of the report, were handed to the then cabinet secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood, who shared them with the PM’s independent adviser on ministerial interests, who was then Sir Alex Allan.
1627
Gray’s report is being anxiously awaited by Conservative MPs, some of whom have already called for Johnson to resign after he was forced to apologise for attending a “bring your own booze” gathering in the No 10 garden on 20 May 2020 – claiming he believed it was a “work event”.
1628
Forty-three women were asked to rate on a scale of one to 10 the attractiveness of images of male faces without a mask, wearing a plain cloth mask, a blue medical face mask, and holding a plain black book covering the area a face mask would hide.
1629
Two and a half years after his election, prime minister Boris Johnson is up against the wall.
Downing Street party claims: what May 2020 looked like for the rest of England – video
1630
Boris Johnson is unlikely to be seen in public for the next week after a member of his immediate family tested positive for Covid, Downing Street has said.
1631
On MHRA approval of the Pfizer vaccine, Downing Street press briefing, December 2020
What we need now is for people to get on that train and travel safely to their destinations.
1632
Douglas Ross, the Scottish Conservative leader and flag-carrier for the rebellion against Boris Johnson, is “a lightweight figure” of little consequence.
1633
The Northern Ireland secretary, Brandon Lewis, has insisted the prime minister was “very, very sincere” when he apologised for attending an alcohol-fuelled gathering in the Downing Street garden, but did not believe had broken the rules.
Lewis played down reports that Johnson had told Conservative MPs in the Commons tea room that he did not believe he did anything wrong and the government was undeservedly taking a hit.
1634
In the new study, researchers found that 12 months after the onset of the pandemic, large and sustained reductions were found in rates of hospital admissions for “a wide range of severe, respiratory, and vaccine preventable childhood infections” in England.
1635
Spain’s medical community has scored a victory after a court ordered that a regional government must compensate doctors up to €49,000 (£41,000) each for having to work without personal protective equipment (PPE) during the devastating early months of the pandemic.
1636
Djokovic on Wednesday acknowledged that he knew he had tested positive when he attended a newspaper interview and photoshoot in the Serbian capital on 18 December, saying in a statement on social media he had made an “error of judgment”.
1637
While his current job as education secretary is Zahawi’s first department-leading cabinet role, his prominence and popularity shot up during his year-long stint as minister for vaccines, overseeing probably the most successful project of the Johnson era.
1638
“When I went into that garden just after six on May 20 2020, to thank groups of staff before going back into my office 25 minutes later to continue working, I believed implicitly that this was a work event.
1639
“When I went into that garden just after six on 20 May 2020, to thank groups of staff before going back into my office 25 minutes later to continue working, I believed implicitly that this was a work event.
1640
Attending the event was a clear breach of lockdown rules, Starmer said, adding that in assuring the Commons he had no knowledge of such things Johnson had broken the ministerial code, seen as a reason to resign.
1641
Robbie Moore, MP for Keighley and Ilkley: I am deeply angered by the thought of any illegal gatherings, parties or social events which took place at Downing Street whilst the rest of the country was in lockdown and following the rules …
1642
Prior to Omicron, Johnson’s team of 14 dogs were trained to approach a line of people and sniff their hands or feet – where humans have many sweat glands – before sitting in front of those they considered infected.
1643
Boris Johnson faces a make-or-break session of prime minister’s questions on Wednesday, with furious Conservative MPs awaiting his explanation of the “bring your own booze” garden party in May 2020.
1644
About half of those have been reported from Europe, about 40% of all cases reported from the Americas with a high burden of cases from the US.”
1645
Boris Johnson is facing intense pressure from senior Conservatives to publicly confess he attended a rule-breaking garden party in Downing Street, with the Scottish Tory leader suggesting the prime minister should resign if he broke Covid rules.
1646
— Michael Rosen 💙💙🎓🎓 (@MichaelRosenYes) January 10, 2022
Meanwhile, they were enjoying the weather at #DowningStreetParties — Al green 💙💙💙 (@allgreeny) January 11, 2022
1647
High-end delivery services are entering the Covid test market as demand for testing continues to soar in the US, with some pivoting to offer Covid tests alongside “wellness” products such as face creams or Botox injections.
1648
Coronavirus loses 90% of its ability to infect us within 20 minutes of becoming airborne – with most of the loss occurring within the first five minutes, the world’s first simulations of how the virus survives in exhaled air suggest.
1649
Mike adds: “Her mental health has not recovered.”
On 20 May 2020, Pete, a 42-year-old theatre nurse in Swansea, was looking after Covid patients in intensive care.
1650
Boris Johnson could one day regret the appointment of Sue Gray as head of a potentially explosive inquiry into suspected Downing Street parties during lockdown.
1651
We weren’t planning on saying bye to our mum Initially, Kelly-Anne felt slightly unwell and had headaches, but by Christmas Eve she had to be taken to intensive care because she was unable to breathe.
1652
Hans Kluge, the WHO’s Europe director, said the region had recorded more than 7 million new cases in the first week of 2022, double the rate of a fortnight previously, with more than 1% of the population catching Covid-19 each week in 26 countries.
1653
Labour’s deputy leader, Angela Rayner, has warned Boris Johnson “he can run but he can’t hide”, as the prime minister declined to answer questions over a “bring your own booze” gathering in the Downing Street garden during the first lockdown.
1654
Peter Giger, the group chief risk officer at Zurich insurance group, which helped to put together the report, said: “The climate crisis remains the biggest long-term threat facing humanity. “Failure to act on climate change could shrink global GDP by one-sixth
1655
Johnson giving a Downing Street press conference 13 December – Sky News Asked again about Downing Street parties: “I can tell you once again that I certainly broke no rules … all that is being looked into.”
1656
Cheng said Sinovac and Sinopharm – like all currently used vaccines – were developed before Omicron appeared, and so it was expected that they all would have reduced effectiveness, as happens with vaccines against new variations of the flu, which are adjusted each year.
1657
“The reason why no interest in PPE Medpro appears in Baroness Mone’s register of interests is because no such interest exists,” her lawyer said in December 2020.
1658
Boris Johnson was accused on Monday night of an “utterly outrageous” breach of lockdown rules a leaked email showed one of his top officials invited more than 100 Downing Street staff to a “bring your own booze” party during the first lockdown.
The party came five days after a 15 May 2020 “wine and pizza” party in Downing Street in the garden and inside No 10, reported by the Guardian, with staff drinking late into the evening.
1659
And however unbelievable that explanation seemed when compared with the atmosphere in the Guardian picture, the newly revealed Reynolds invitation makes it ever clearer: that explanation will not wash this time.
1660
Recent LSHTM modelling showed that requiring two days of negative LFTs to leave isolation reduced the risk of transmission to almost nil as the likelihood of being infectious after a series of negative lateral flow tests was very low.
1661
Clear now for sake of our national security as well as for social cohesion that we must Leave EU & have Australian-style immigration system. — Nigel Farage (@Nigel_Farage) January 30, 2016 “
1662
“I am so happy because I was missing school, my teachers, my friends and my studies,” said 10-year-old Nawilah Senkungu of Nakasero primary school in Kampala.
1663
The government has sounded a cautious note until now, since it only recently cut isolation requirements from 10 days to seven days for asymptomatic cases if a person tests negative by lateral flow on days five and six of isolation.
1664
With the peak of the Omicron wave still several weeks away, Morrison also said he was confident that all states would resume face-to-face learning in term one, and was hopeful that states and territories would “harmonise their back-to-school plans”.
1665
Authorities in Israel and Canada also authorised the Pfizer vaccine for use in children aged 5 to 11, while the European Medicines Agency recommended that the Pfizer vaccine be approved for the same age group.
1666
Downing Street is facing calls to ensure that Boris Johnson will be personally interviewed by the Sue Gray inquiry about alleged No 10 gatherings during the first lockdown, after it emerged he may have been present a “bring your own booze” party that month.
“While the terms of reference for the new investigation have not been published, it is paramount that Sue Gray is given the same access – including if she needs to interview the prime minister.
1667
15 May 2020
Asked if a party went ahead in his flat on 13 November, Johnson said: “No.”
18 December 2020 – Downing Street Christmas party
1668
With case numbers wildly outstripping the UK’s laboratory testing capacity, lateral flow tests continue to be vital for tracking case numbers.
1669
Recent weeks have seen the number of Covid cases in Spain rise to record highs, pushing the 14-day infection rate to 2,723 cases per 100,000, according to the latest figures from the health ministry.
1670
Pressed on whether the government had plans to scrap the free tests, he said: “Absolutely not.
— Nicola Sturgeon (@NicolaSturgeon) January 8, 2022
1671
The chief executive of King’s College hospital NHS trust, Prof Clive Kay, told the BBC’s Sunday Morning programme that his organisation was working urgently to encourage staff to come forward for vaccination to avoid redeploying or losing them.
1672
China reported 165 confirmed coronavirus cases for 8 January, up from 159 a day earlier, its health authority said on Sunday.
1673
Abtin, 48, who was serving a six-year sentence for “anti-government propaganda”, died shortly after PEN America and 18 other rights groups voiced concern over his treatment in a letter to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
1674
“My advice from border force is their assessment of any visas relating to the Australian Open has now been completed and two other individuals have now voluntarily left the country,” Hunt told reporters.
1675
A government spokesperson said “historic amounts of funding” were being provided for NHS backlogs and social care, adding: “Hospital admissions are rising, however this is not yet translating into the same numbers needing intensive care that we saw in previous waves.
1676
And for Saturday’s match, against Bath City, Chelmsford’s manager, Robbie Simpson, who has also tested positive, was preparing to coach them remotely via a livestream from isolation.
1677
Vaccination is not compulsory in Lebanon, but in recent days authorities have cracked down on people who are not inoculated or do not carry a negative PCR test.
1678
The federal court’s website has published the link to Monday’s hearing, along with the warning in bold letters: “It is imperative that you keep your camera and audio off as this can affect the progress of the hearing.”
1679
An NHS doctor has challenged Sajid Javid over compulsory vaccines for healthcare workers, telling the health secretary: “I’ve not had a vaccination; I don’t want to have a vaccination.”
1680
I am also feeling positive that a call from a retired teacher yesterday offering to come in and teach will mean my students will have a specialist in front of them next week to cover a long-term absence.
1681
“There is at least a medium-high 50-70% risk of successful challenge in the basis of equality and rationality grounds if we require individuals to have a confirmatory PCR to access TTSP [test-and-trace support] payments,” the advice says.
1682
Well over 100 of the Conservatives’ 361 MPs are aligned with one or more of a string of internal pressure groups.
European Research Group
1683
“It feels particularly important now, as we’ve had two years of a Conservative government and for some of us it hasn’t especially felt like a Conservative government,” one backbencher said.
1684
For the sport, I think, as I said, if he’s ready to play and he’s allowed to play, I think it’s in a way good for our sport with all this attention because probably the Australian Open won’t have as many views as it’s ever probably had if he’s able to play.
1685
Meanwhile, an online-only pet store, Pet Foods by Village Farm, offered to deliver the same type of test for $50, and a liquor store was selling a “Covid fighter pack”, including rapid tests and hand sanitizer, for more than $100.
1686
“The current data show the booster dose is continuing to provide high levels of protection against severe disease, even for the most vulnerable older age groups,” said Prof Wei Shen Lim, the JCVI’s chair of Covid-19 immunisation.
1687
The timing of Mone’s referral of PPE Medpro also appears to be significant because it seems to have occurred days before the company had even secured the crucial business deal that enabled it to supply PPE to the NHS.
1688
”This time the government fast-tracked a pilot of community testing of about 125,000 people in Liverpool using Innova’s lateral flow antigen test, and found that 897 people who did not know they had the virus tested positive and were stopped from spreading it further.
1689
No 10 was hoping the festive break would stop talk of a Conservative leadership challenge and that Johnson’s decision to hold off restrictions would earn him a breather.
1690
But the pandemic has seriously strained the flow of supplies with factory shutdowns and transport problems, leading the Norwegian military to ask conscripts to hand over underwear, including bras and socks.
1691
James Jamieson, the chair of the LGA, said emergency legislation would help curb the spread of the virus and make sure “councils can continue to make democratic decisions, even during times of emergency”.
1692
The Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, has ordered the arrest of unvaccinated people who violate stay-at-home orders aimed at curbing “galloping” coronavirus infections driven by the Omicron variant.
1693
Thousands of NHS staff have been off work each week in London, which last month became the first part of the country to see a huge wave of Covid cases caused by the new strain, leaving hospitals struggling to cope with unprecedented levels of staff absence.
1694
Soaring infection rates in the north of England mean that one NHS trust expects to have 30% more Covid cases next week than it had at the last peak, the chief executive of NHS Providers said.
1695
“I want to say to the anti-vax campaigners, the people who are putting this mumbo jumbo on social media: they are completely wrong,” Johnson told broadcasters on a visit to a vaccination centre in Moulton Park, Northampton.
1696
Morrison on Thursday confirmed Djokovic’s visa was cancelled, saying “rules are rules” and praising federal Covid policies, a day after saying such exemptions were a matter for state governments.
1697
” The new measures oblige people over 50 who do not work to get vaccinated, while from 15 February, those who do have jobs will have to show a vaccine pass to enter the workplace, removing the option of taking a coronavirus test.
1698
In addition, anyone who cannot pay their self-assessment tax by the deadline will not face a late-payment penalty, provided they pay in full or set up a so-called “time to pay” arrangement – which lets people spread their payments – by 1 April.
1699
With about 6 million people already waiting for planned treatment, the backlog caused by the pandemic is a major and “unquantifiable” challenge as more people seek care, according to the cross-party health and social care committee.
1700
Italy has made it obligatory for people aged 50 or more to be vaccinated against Covid-19 as the country scrambles to ease pressure on hospitals and reduce deaths amid a dramatic surge in infections.
1701
Unlike previous waves of Covid, only four people are being cared for in ICU, whereas in previous waves we were maxed out at 20 people in ICU.
1702
Conversations with the few committed anti-vaxxers who call are kept as short as possible, with the students trained to always ask whether the caller has a specific medical question.
1703
The prime minister has himself been forced to self-isolate before, but tried to avoid doing so in July 2021 after he and chancellor, Rishi Sunak, came into close contact with the health secretary, Sajid Javid, who later tested positive for Covid.
1704
Officially, India has detected 1,892 Omicron cases but Arora said that Omicron probably now accounted for around 50% of the new Covid cases in urban areas, overtaking Delta as the dominant variant.
1705
The new head of an investigation into alleged rule-breaking Downing Street parties has not “started from scratch” and is unlikely to re-interview all government staff who have already been spoken to about their knowledge of the gatherings
1706
We reduce it – sorry for the expression – by pissing them off even more.”
You will no longer be able to go for a coffee, you will no longer be able to go the theatre.
Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Rally, said a president “should not say such things”, adding that the language was “not worthy of the office”and that Macron was “turning the unvaccinated into second-class citizens.”
1707
Johnson claimed the vaccine programme and reduced chance of hospitalisation with Omicron meant there was now a chance for the country to get through the wave without imposing new restrictions.
1708
He told a staff Zoom meeting that the loss of 150 out of 900 beds at the trust’s main hospital – Addenbrooke’s, one of the NHS’s finest – meant that “we could barely function before Covid”.
1709
On Tuesday, University hospitals Plymouth NHS trust, Great Western hospitals NHS foundation trust, Blackpool teaching hospitals NHS foundation trust and University hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS foundation trust all confirmed they had also declared critical incidents.
1710
The Israeli prime minister, Naftali Bennett, said on Tuesday that the preliminary findings of an Israeli study found a fourth dose of vaccine boosted antibodies five-fold after a week.
1711
Ruth Lopes Rodrigues, 80, and Rosemeire Lopes Rodrigues Bortolin, 54, Brazil Ruth Lopes Rodrigues, 80, and her daughter Rosemeire Lopes Rodrigues Bortolin, 54, lived in São Paulo and died 15 days apart in early 2021.
1712
Three asymptomatic cases of Covid-19 were enough for Chinese authorities to lock down a city of almost 1.2 million people on Monday, joining 13 million others in locked down Xi’an, where local authorities have asked for restrictions to be tightened even further.
1713
We don’t get help from the government.
Louise Masimela, 58, who runs a community school for young children in a township just south of Graaff-Reinet, is another of South Africa’s perpetual problem-solvers.
“There a lot of good people in government who want to do the right thing … and I can see things changing.
1714
I don’t like the idea of having face masks in [the] classroom any more than anybody else does, but we won’t keep them on a day more than is necessary,” he said.
1715
Unless the entire class has been vaccinated, Italy has also required all pupils aged six and over to wear a mask indoors at school since last year, while Greece extended the mandate to nursery school children – with masks to be changed three times a day.
1716
“Looking at the pressures on the NHS in the next couple of weeks, and maybe longer, looking at the numbers of people that are going to be going into hospital, it would be absolute folly to say that this thing is all over now bar the shouting,” the prime minister said.
1717
One of the largest acute hospital trusts in England, ULH includes Lincoln county hospital, Grantham and district hospital, Pilgrim hospital in Boston and County hospital Louth.
1718
Ministers have told headteachers in England to start preparing for staff shortages by using support staff to fill in gaps, combining classes or using hybrid learning, with some classes taught remotely and some face-to-face.
1719
In the next 12 months, in the government and private sector, Sri Lanka will be required to repay an estimated $7.3bn in domestic and foreign loans, including a $500m international sovereign bond repayment in January.
1720
Divisions of her Stoke-based Bet365 empire donated £100m to the Denise Coates Foundation in the year to 28 March 2021, the accounts show, while investments held by the charity grew in value by £86.5m.
1721
The issue is exacerbated because many patients can’t even get referred to NHS long-Covid clinics in the first place – often their symptoms are dismissed as anxiety.
1722
Of course, the memories are still there, but for the ones that really matter, send the awkward message; share the cringey reminiscence.
1723
“But they are the minority – the challenge comes in encouraging the rest of us, who know we should exercise, who know there are clear health benefits, who want to come back and want to keep coming back, but just don’t.”
1724
Prof Johan Neyts said this may be because the virus was better at infecting humans than hamsters, or that it was more likely to infect the upper respiratory tract, or that it provoked less-severe disease.
1725
The department claimed that, so far, disruption caused by Omicron has been controlled in “most parts of the public sector”, but acknowledged that public sector leaders have been asked to play through “worst case scenarios” of 10%, 20% and 25% workforce absence rates, PA reported.
1726
The NHS effort to deal with Omicron is being hampered because substantial numbers of patients cannot be discharged from hospital despite being fit to return home, NHS leaders have said.
1727
Parks and open spaces have become crowded with “pandemic puppies” – many born during lockdown, when puppy training classes were closed and most dog owners were social distancing.
1728
“Mark Drakeford [the Welsh first minister] doesn’t want us to have a good time in Cardiff but he can’t stop us coming over here,” said Luke Spear, a 22-year-old bar worker.
1729
Thames Valley police have now shared a picture of a woman they believe may have information that could help their investigation and urged anyone who recognises her to come forward.
1730
According to the latest figures from the UKHSA, overall, people with Omicron are estimated to be about half as likely to go to A&E or be admitted to hospital compared with those with Delta, while the risk of hospital admission alone is approximately a third of that for Delta.
1731
The UK’s Health Security Agency (UKHSA) on Wednesday cut the 10-day self-isolation period for vaccinated and unvaccinated people in England who have tested positive for coronavirus from 10 days to seven if they get the all-clear from lateral flow tests.
1732
South Africa has lifted a nightime curfew on people’s movement with immediate effect, believing the country has passed the peak of its fourth coronavirus wave driven by the Omicron variant.
1733
Sharing the news over TikTok, Fotieo posted a short video from inside the cramped quarters, writing: “POV you test positive for Covid while over the Atlantic Ocean.” “Shout out to Icelandair for my VIP quarantine quarters,” she added.
1734
Josh Frydenberg has spoken to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission chair Rod Sims about concerns some suppliers are charging sky-high prices for Covid-19 rapid antigen tests.
1735
A spokesperson for the deputy prime minister and justice secretary said he “followed the rules at all times”, given that government guidance states masks only need to be worn indoors at sport stadiums.
1736
”A member of staff at the facility, who wished to remain anonymous, said LFTs had been available at the testing site throughout the year but footfall had “shot up” since the Omicron variant led to a sharp rise in recorded cases.
1737
The Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating Committee (PSNC), which represents NHS community pharmacies in England, said some pharmacy staff were being verbally abused when stocks of lateral flow tests ran out.
1738
Since 22 December, people in England who test positive for Covid can cut their self-isolation period from 10 days to seven if they have a negative lateral flow test on day six and day seven and no high temperature.
1739
“Our adoption of a four-day working week has been a huge success, and we are proud of how well our employees have adapted,” said Anne-Marie Lister, Atom’s chief people officer.
1740
“In light of the huge demand for LFDs seen over the last three weeks, we expect to need to constrain the system at certain points over the next two weeks to manage supply over the course of each day, with new tranches of supply released regularly throughout each day,” he wrote.
1741
I hope @ThamesVP get the evidence needed to bring these morons to justice  
The Conservative MP for Rutland and Melton, Alicia Kearns, described the scenes as “shameful, self-aggrandising nonsense”.
1742
The UK Health Security Agency said tests were temporarily unavailable on the government website at points throughout the day due to “exceptionally high demand” and urged people not to order more tests before using the ones they have.
1743
“People are trying to do the right thing, follow the government’s own advice and test themselves regularly, but are prevented by the Conservative government’s incompetence,” he said.
1744
The Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta will be absent for his side’s New Year’s Day clash with Manchester City after testing positive for coronavirus.
1745
Sajid Javid has criticised the Welsh government for limiting outdoor gatherings after parkrun decided to cancel its events.
1746
Contact restrictions were in place in Germany for the second year in a row heading into the New Year, as Europe’s biggest economy shuttered nightclubs and forced sports competitions behind closed doors.
1747
Michael van Gerwen hit out at tournament organisers after being left “disappointed, confused angry” following his withdrawal from the World Darts Championship because of a positive test for Covid-19.
“Really disappointed, confused, angry the way how my world championship is ending,” he wrote on Twitter.
Also ain’t got any symptoms.
I don’t know where I got it.
Also ain’t got any symptoms.
1748
She said that a person’s own decisions if they were of legal age and mentally capable had to be taken into account in an emergency situation such as a pandemic, in which not all patients needing intensive medical care would be able to receive it if resources were short.
1749
Earlier this year, the White House explored a domestic vaccination requirement for flights, or requiring vaccination or a negative test.
1750
A pair of coaches – Phoenix’s Monty Williams and Portland’s Chauncey Billups – entered the NBA’s health and safety protocols Monday.
1751
We were having training sessions, I was preparing for the game and then at the end of the training session you can have a positive player in your team.
1752
One model has predicted that in London, where Covid rates are highest, up to 40% of staff could be absent because of sickness.
1753
Their manager, Claudio Ranieri, said he would have to bring in some Under-23 players as they held their first “normal training session” since 10 December.
1754
Prof Stephen Reicher of the University of St Andrews, and a member of Spi-B – the behavioural sub group of Sage, said that whether advice alone works depends on three key factors – the first of which is whether the source is trusted.
1755
We’ve turned a botanical problem into a solution for an environmental problem, creating employment and skills development Divin Kouebatouka
1756
The BMA has written to every hospital trust in England demanding that any health professional treating patients who are or may be Covid-positive should be routinely issued with FFP3s, which are much more expensive than the surgical masks usually provided.
1757
Enjoli Rodriguez, 25, whose Delta flight from Los Angeles to Lexington, Kentucky, was canceled on Christmas Eve due to staffing shortages, was one of the thousands still stranded on Sunday.
1758
Boris Johnson is expected to examine crucial hospital data on Monday before making any new announcement on Covid measures, but has no plans to recall his cabinet, with ministers still deeply sceptical of further legal curbs.
1759
Another leading public health expert said he did not think the case for possible fourth vaccine shots needed to be made right now.
1760
The five-time world champion revealed he had tested positive after his 3-1 defeat by Rob Cross at Alexandra Palace on Thursday night.
The upcoming days I will stay in quarantine in London.
1761
Khan said the campaign to get people vaccinated at centres open from Christmas Eve to Boxing Day was useful in a diverse area like Ilford and especially for workers who did not have the luxury of working from home.
1762
The total value of these vouchers is £26,427,050.Participants, who are selected at random, are regularly visited by arrangement at weekly or monthly intervals to be tested for Covid and are given £25 vouchers for each visit.
1763
I know that mug-obsessed, small-stuff-sweating innocent I was is still in here somewhere under the dressing gown crumbs, behind the eye bags.
1764
However, Professor Martin Hibberd, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, argues that coronaviruses – like those that already cause common colds – do not behave this way: “They do not appear as new strains every year.
1765
“If No 10 proposes tighter restrictions straight after Christmas, those cabinet ministers with freedom-loving instincts – who gave us all so much hope last week – must speak out,” said one member of the Covid Recovery Group of Tory MPs.
1766
The news comes as fellow Canadian Milos Raonic becomes the latest player to be ruled out of the Australian Open and world No 1 Novak Djokovic is reportedly not travelling to Sydney for ATP Cup, despite being named in Serbia’s team.
1767
Pep Guardiola believes masks should be mandatory in every public space to help ensure games will not have to be played in closed stadiums again due to the surge in Covid cases.
1768
But when you divide it up by the many, many people that have suffered, I’m not sure whether it’s going to be enough to stop some companies going into liquidation,” said Pugh.
1769
“In the old days, the Incas grew these ecotypes and now we continue the path set down by our ancestors,” says Juan Huillca, a conservationist in Choquecancha, a tiny mountainside village.
1770
The leading Catholic in England and Wales, the archbishop of Westminster, has urged the government not to reintroduce restrictions on churches amid record Covid-19 infection rates.
1771
China as a whole reported 140 new confirmed coronavirus cases for Friday, an increase of 62% from 87 cases the day before, its health authority said on Saturday.
1772
There’s enormous short-term success but it also opens up a lot of potential long-term opportunities in delivering RNA as a vaccine for emerging diseases and also as a means of developing new therapeutics to treat a whole range of disorders.
1773
More than 600,000 people will be forced to self-isolate on Christmas Day after a record 119,789 tested positive for Covid, the highest daily figure since the pandemic began.
1774
He normally runs church services and midnight mass, but since testing positive a few days ago he has been forced to self -isolate in his room.
1775
New locally transmitted cases with confirmed symptoms in the city, which is famous for its terracotta warriors buried with China’s first emperor, fell to 49 for 23 December, down from 63 a day earlier - the first decline since 10 December.
1776
On Wednesday, the FDA approved a Pfizer antiviral, Paxlovid, that reduced the risk of hospitalization among high-risk patients by 89% when they took it within three days of the onset of symptoms and almost the same amount when taken within five days, according to a Pfizer study.
1777
Staff and volunteers will continue to deliver jabs in some locations on 25 and 26 December, as the NHS tries to meet Boris Johnson’s target of giving everybody eligible a booster by the end of the year amid a surge in the number of Covid cases.
1778
“That, after all, is the teaching of Jesus Christ, whose birth is at the heart of this enormous festival – that we should love our neighbours as we love ourselves,” he said.
1779
NHS England data released on Thursday showed that the number of health service staff days lost to Covid in England soared by 38% last week, to 124,855.
1780
Separately, researchers at the University of Edinburgh studied infections from the Delta and Omicron variants since November and said the results “suggest that Omicron is associated with a two-thirds reduction in the risk of Covid-19 hospitalisation when compared with Delta”.
1781
Johnson will be sincerely relieved if England can start the new year free of harsh restrictions that could further batter his popularity, and he may even hope that, as with last year’s vaccine bounce, the end of the Omicron wave boosts the public mood.
1782
29 December Forest Green v Exeter, Leyton Orient v Newport, Salford v Carlisle, Scunthorpe v Northampton, Walsall v Bradford National League: 26 December Barnet v Boreham Wood, Halifax v Grimsby, Wealdstone v Maidenhead, Weymouth v Eastleigh, Wrexham v Solihull Moors.
1783
Chris Hopson, the chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents hospitals and other NHS trusts, said two studies showing that people infected with Omicron were at less risk of being admitted to hospital than those infected with the Delta variant were good news.
1784
Civil rights groups in Malawi have cautioned the government on its decision to make the Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for frontline workers.
1785
An IOPC spokesperson told PA Media: “We can confirm that on 17 December we received a referral from the Metropolitan police service [MPS] of a complaint about an alleged party at Downing Street in December 2020.
1786
NHS rules state that if you test positive your isolation period begins on the day that your symptoms developed or the day that you took the test if you don’t have symptoms, and ends 10 days later.
1787
Pfizer Inc said on Wednesday the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorized its antiviral Covid-19 pill, making it the first at-home treatment for the coronavirus that is expected to become an important tool in the fight against the fast spreading Omicron variant.
1788
In September, the watchdog referred the decision on mass vaccination for 12- to 15-year-olds to the UK’s chief medical officers, saying the net health benefit even for this age group was too small.
1789
However, Kerkhove cautioned against recent reports – including from South Africa – that suggested the Omicron variant spreading around the world may be less severe than previous variants, saying there was still insufficient data to make a judgment. “
1790
As tradition dictates, the draw for the lottery, which dates back to 1812, was held at the Teatro Real opera house in Madrid, with children from the city’s San Ildefonso school calling out the winning numbers.
1791
NBA commissioner Adam Silver told ESPN later in the day that the league’s big annual Christmas Day slate of five games would go on despite the postponements of several regular season games.
1792
It quotes one NHS leader describing the new facilities as “lots of little Nightingales”, a reference to the seven field hospitals set up last year in England to give the health service extra capacity when the first wave of Covid hit in March.
1793
“The citizens of Israel were the first in the world to receive third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and we are continuing to pioneer with the fourth dose as well,” Bennett said in remarks relayed by his office, calling on those who meet the criteria to “go and get vaccinated”.
The decision to begin giving a second booster shot comes as Israel braces for a fifth wave of infection caused by the fast-spreading Omicron variant.
1794
From nearly 27,000 new cases nationwide on Thursday, the numbers dropped to about 15,424 on Tuesday, although those claims may still be premature and also influenced by other statistical factors.
1795
Still, Hancock got in shape, raised nearly £8,000 and came home in under four hours despite heckles from what he called a “small but noisy group of anti-vaxxers”.
1796
A handful of clubs, including Liverpool and Arsenal, wanted two rather than three matches to be played over the holiday programme but they were overruled by the vast majority of teams, who indicated a desire to play.
“I think decisions get made – of course want to play as footballers, we want to get out there and play – but I am worried about player welfare and I don’t think anybody does take that seriously enough, especially in this period, when Covid is here.
1797
The news came as some countries in Europe tightened curbs, with Portugal ordering nightclubs and bars to close and telling people to work from home for at least two weeks, and Germany reimposing tighter rules on social contact.
1798
The prime minister said he understood that families across England needed certainty to press ahead with Christmas plans but warned curbs could still be imposed after 25 December because of the rapid spread of the Omicron variant.
1799
In a study published in The Lancet medical journal on Monday, researchers found the protection afforded by two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine began to wane three months after the second jab.
1800
All this is notably complicated by the fact that imposing new Covid restrictions on a largely vaccinated public involves more nuanced decisions than was the case a year ago, even with a fast-spreading new variant, and thus the lines between hawks and doves can blur.
1801
The NHS has increased the daily rate of booster vaccinations by three-quarters in a week – but remains short of the roughly 1.5m jabs a day needed to match Boris Johnson’s promise of a booster jab for all those eligible by the end of the year.
1802
Premiership rugby clubs would struggle to survive another lockdown, the Bristol director of rugby Pat Lam has warned, after tighter restrictions on sporting events in Wales and Scotland put officials on red alert.
1803
US federal regulators are expected to approve the first pills to treat Covid-19 as early as this week, it was reported on Tuesday.
1804
The organisation argues the lack of a proper system to monitor the accuracy of tests at such labs breached the Department of Health and Social Care’s duty to protect life, and the human rights of those affected.
1805
The Treasury is keen to point to a stronger starting point than earlier phases of the pandemic.
The relaunch of the sick pay rebate will help firms, but does little to help their staff.
1806
The Wall Street Journal had reported that Riyadh said there were no signs the ambassador was seriously ill and that in return for allowing Irlu to leave Yemen, Riyadh had asked the Houthis to release a number of Saudis held by the militant group.
1807
The paper’s London correspondent, Jörg Schindler, however, concluded it was not yet certain the prime minister with “a Pinocchio-like relationship with the truth” was about to leave the stage.
1808
During the 2020-21 school year, Grant said, the district lost a staggering 476 students – some to a better-performing district nearby, some to homeschooling and others to virtual schools – for a net loss of about $4.2m.
1809
Barclay said Sunak was talking to industry figures about their financial predicament and the government would be saying more about this issue later on Tuesday.
1810
Fellow NRL clubs Newcastle, Wests Tigers and South Sydney have also had pre-season training disrupted in recent weeks because of Covid-19 cases.
1811
Speaking later, Johnson’s official spokesperson stressed that work was in fact continuing during the drinks event, with the photo showing “colleagues who were required to be in work, meeting following a press conference to discuss work”.
1812
The NHL will begin a leaguewide shutdown Wednesday amid an increase of positive Covid-19 test results among players across the league, ESPN confirmed on Monday night.
1813
As if things could not get worse for our Prime Minister, here’s the crowd chanting “Stand up if you hate Boris” at the 2022 Darts World Championship at Alexandra Palace in London tonight.
1814
Tedros said the Omicron variant was spreading faster than the Delta variant and was causing infections in people already vaccinated or who have recovered from the Covid-19 disease.
1815
New Covid restrictions are unlikely to be imposed before Christmas amid deep cabinet divisions but Boris Johnson warned further measures remain on the table, with data on the threat of Omicron monitored “hour by hour”.
1816
However, a key objective set out in the guidelines for workplaces that remained open was to “maintain 2-metre social distancing wherever possible”.
1817
On a day when it emerged that 16% of top-flight players are unvaccinated and a record 90 positive tests had been recorded among players and staff in the week up to last Sunday, a two-tier system was raised at an emergency meeting.
1818
On Friday 15 May 2020, NHS healthcare assistant Carlos Sia was one of 314 people who died after contracting Covid, passing away in the Worcestershire Royal hospital where he worked.
1819
Gray took over after claims of the social event in Case’s office on 17 December last year, a day before an alleged party at Downing Street, among those he was looking into.
1820
The prime minister’s spokesperson said that while it was a work meeting after a Covid press conference on 15 May 2020, the fact it happened outside normal work hours meant it was within the regulations for them to be drinking wine.
1821
I’m finding this separation pretty difficult.” ‘In blended families like our own, it’s more complex’
“In blended families like our own, it is more complex.
1822
The Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice group said funerals at that time were allowed fewer people in attendance than there appeared to be in the Downing Street garden, and it was “exhausting” to see the “constant, flagrant disregard we have all been held in”.
1823
The company said a two-dose course of its vaccine generated low neutralising antibodies against Omicron but a 50µg booster dose increased neutralising antibodies against the variant 37-fold.
1824
Dominic Raab has said he disagrees with the concerns of the former Brexit minister David Frost that Covid restrictions are too coercive, saying it was too early to know how damaging the rapid spread of the Omicron variant may be.
1825
Even in a normal winter, critical bed crises are a common problem, with operations cancelled and patient care often compromised as a result.
1826
The health secretary’s blunt intervention came after government advisers warned that without tougher measures, hospitalisations across England could be set to peak at between 3,000 and 10,000 a day, and deaths at between 600 and 6,000 a day.
1827
Downing Street staff were permitted to do this, as key workers, but the guidelines on in-person meetings were very clear: these should only take place if absolutely necessary, and then with everyone distanced at least 2 metres.
1828
A Downing Street spokesperson said on Sunday: “As we said last week, work meetings often take place in the Downing Street garden in the summer months.
1829
Sajid Javid said the unvaccinated – about 5 million people or 10% of the eligible population – were having a damaging impact on society and creating extra pressure on the health system.
1830
She said: “The closure of schools and out-of-school care has emotional consequences for all children, especially children in a vulnerable situation.
1831
Data from South Africa gave some cause for hope, with hospitalisations down on previous waves, but the researchers found no evidence Omicron was milder than Delta.
1832
The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says people should be fully vaccinated before visiting El Salvador, where levels of Covid-19 are “high”.
1833
Chelsea’s fixture with Wolves at Molineux will go ahead as planned on Sunday after the Premier League denied the visitors’ request to postpone the game due to an increase in positive Covid-19 tests.
1834
Buchan said: “As the more infectious Omicron variant sweeps through communities this winter, access to rapid testing will be important for keeping key emergency, social care and NHS services afloat with test-to-release or daily contact-testing schemes.
1835
New Shepard’s first passenger flight in July 2021 carried Bezos and three others, but Richard Branson pipped Bezos to the post of being the first billionaire to make a space flight by taking off in Virgin Galactic’s rocket, Unity, nine days earlier.
1836
Michael Bartley, a critical care matron at King’s, estimated that “80 to 90%” in the hospital’s critical care beds were unvaccinated.
1837
Nations across Europe moved to reimpose tougher measures to stem a new wave of Covid infections spurred by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, with the Netherlands leading the way by imposing a nationwide lockdown.
1838
The force said officers were also subjected to “abuse and physical violence” elsewhere on Whitehall – leading to several more officers sustaining minor injuries.
1839
“If a player is not vaccinated at all, he is a constant threat for all of us,” Klopp said.
It calls for further leadership, and not just from Klopp.
1840
“We are in a better position than a year ago, as most people have now had at least some vaccine, or previous infection, which may help to reduce the severity experienced by many people.”
1841
Yeovil, which was once the stronghold of Ashdown, who helped establish the Lib Dems as the third force in British politics, turned Conservative in 2015, electing Marcus Fysh.
1842
Gray was brought in after the Guido Fawkes website reported on Friday that two Christmas parties were held in Case’s department, the Cabinet Office, in December 2020, when restrictions were in place.
1843
In a separate interview with BBC Breakfast, the Labour MP said that “if the rules are broken … in any other line of work, the police would be investigating and I don’t know why the police aren’t investigating this situation.
1844
Khan made the decision after Britain reported the largest 24-hour increase in the number of new cases since the pandemic began on Friday.
1845
“More data are needed to understand the severity profile and how severity is impacted by vaccination and pre-existing immunity.”
1846
A Premier League statement read: “Due to more positive cases in the Aston Villa squad today, the Premier League Board has regrettably had to postpone the club’s home fixture against Burnley, due to kick-off at 3pm this afternoon. “
1847
And buying chocolate: “If the worst comes to the worst, and you just sit there for the whole day eating a tin of Roses, is that really such a bad thing?”
1848
Rising Covid cases have also left London fire and rescue services with “unprecedented” staff shortages, the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) said, with almost a third of London’s fire engines out of action at points in the last week.
1849
In a preliminary study, researchers led by Prof Neil Ferguson at Imperial College London found that vaccines are substantially less effective against Omicron than Delta and saw no evidence that Omicron is intrinsically milder than Delta.
1850
Newcastle’s Eddie Howe said he wanted the Premier League halted if only half the games can be played safely and teams are missing players because of Covid.
1851
While there has been an increase in hospitalisations and deaths in South Africa in recent days, driven by the surge in cases of the Omicron variant, along with continuing infections by the Delta variant, health officials say it remains at lower levels than in previous waves.
1852
Conveying strong and data-driven concern, says Linda Bauld, professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh, “is a motivator for the public to change their behaviour, particularly in Scotland where you have a high level of trust in government.
1853
Unable to visit Nigeria last year because of the pandemic, she was giddy with excitement at the prospect of being reuniting with family and friends – and partying.
1854
The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, has asked for the names of health officials who approved Covid vaccines for children, saying he planned to make their identities public despite previous death threats.
1855
With the PCR travel test still a minefield for consumers Tyrie said the CMA had the “technical expertise to help the DHSC minimise the consumer detriment and needed to make every effort to put it at their disposal”.
1856
Saints coach Sean Payton returned to practice on Thursday after staying home on Wednesday, when the team said the coach was “under the weather,” but had tested negative for Covid-19.
1857
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday recommended Americans choose to receive one of two other authorized Covid-19 vaccines over Johnson & Johnson’s shot, due to rare but sometimes fatal cases of blood-clotting.
1858
The Met also said it was looking into staff gatherings at 10 Downing Street and the Department for Education in November and December 2020 and was in contact with the Cabinet Office, but would not open an investigation at this time.
1859
Hobnobbing with tech bosses in California as the hospitality sector howled in pain at the catastrophic impact of the Omicron variant was a rare political misstep for a chancellor whose public image is so carefully polished.
1860
Manchester United and Leicester were joined by Watford, Norwich and Brentford in having too few players available to fulfil their weekend fixtures, with Leicester’s game at home to Tottenham on Thursday also called off.
1861
“In vaccination we often have this binary notion that comes from market economics that talks about vaccine programs as merely a matter of supply and demand,” Julie Leask, a vaccine expert and professor at the University of Sydney, says.
1862
Pupils starting at both primary and secondary schools appear to have been the most disrupted, with inspectors hearing that children had arrived “with lower starting points” than in previous years and were taking longer to settle in.
1863
It was in this context that about 20 civil servants and aides gathered in Downing Street for what, one source claimed, was a “wine and pizza” party that went on late into the night.
1864
Speaking at a Downing Street press conference on Wednesday alongside the prime minister, England’s chief medical officer urged the public: “Don’t mix with people you don’t have to.”
Several other Conservative MPs have also reacted with anger to Whitty’s comments, which intensified calls from the hospitality sector financial aid to help them cope with plunging bookings.
1865
While sources claimed both Johnson and Hancock were present for a short time when staff and aides were drinking, there is no suggestion they drank themselves, or stayed late.
1866
As infections increase, pregnant women can be reassured that getting a vaccine is the best way to protect them and their babies.”
1867
“Even if it is milder, because it is concentrated over a short period of time you could end up with a higher number than that going into hospital on a single day.
1868
NSW Health issued an alert on Thursday evening about the “On Repeat: Taylor Swift Red Party” at Sydney’s Metro theatre, with at least 600 people who arrived after 9pm on Friday deemed close contacts.
1869
The Dutch royal family has expressed regret after it last week invited a reported 21 people to celebrate the 18th birthday of Princess Amalia, the future queen, in breach of coronavirus health guidance.
1870
However, the team found that being female, obese, able to walk only a very short distance and having raised levels of certain inflammatory proteins in their blood – compared with the mild group – were all linked to having very severe symptoms.
1871
Tottenham’s manager, Antonio Conte, and his Leicester counterpart, Brendan Rodgers, wanted their Premier League match on Thursday to be postponed.
1872
His Twitter profile also appeared to have recently been deleted.
She declined to comment when approached by the Guardian but shared the same comment as Mallet.
1873
The study, by a team from the University of Hong Kong, also found that the new variant grew 10 times slower in lung tissue, which the authors said could be an indicator of lower disease severity.
1874
Barchester has also said it will require residents to isolate for seven days whenever they voluntarily leave the home, a rule that again goes further than the government guidance which asks for isolation only after an emergency stay in hospital.
1875
Ellis Genge has dropped a bombshell by informing Leicester he will be the latest star player to leave at the end of the season, with the Tigers captain expected to return to his hometown club Bristol.
1876
Quarterback Baker Mayfield and coach Kevin Stefanski tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and will likely miss Saturday’s game against the Las Vegas Raiders as Cleveland deals with a widespread outbreak during its playoff pursuit.
1877
Dr Jenny Harries told the Commons transport select committee on Wednesday that it was still too early to judge the potential risk of the new Covid variant and warned that the virus was “growing faster”, telling MPs to expect a “staggering” growth rate over the coming days.
1878
Matt Fowler, the co-founder of Covid-19 Bereaved Families For Justice, said its members hoped to work closely with Hallett.
1879
On Wednesday, South Africa reported a record number of daily Covid infections, with the figure of 26,976 surpassing a peak of 26,485 new cases in early July during a third wave driven by the Delta variant.
1880
Dr Davidson recalled a paper she was recently sent “that shows that if you make an error of a newly learned word on a recall task, you’re more likely to keep making that same error (rather than a different error, or the correct pronunciation).”
1881
Spector urged people with cold symptoms – and not just the classic Covid symptoms – to take a test.
“Most people don’t have classic symptoms.”
1882
“Amazon is also ranking these anti-vaccine products higher in the search results as compared to the products that debunk vaccine misinformation,” Juneja said.
1883
The searches at five addresses in the city of Dresden and one in the nearby town of Heidenau targeted members of a group on the messaging service Telegram where plans for the killing were discussed in connection with the state government’s coronavirus curbs, police said.
1884
Simon Kidwell, the principal of Hartford Manor primary school in Cheshire, says that when children came back to school after lockdown, some of his youngest struggled to communicate with each other and had little idea of how to take turns or play together.
1885
It said that Bailey “does not want an unauthorised social gathering involving some former members of the London mayoral campaign team last December to distract from the committee’s important work holding the mayor of London to account”.
1886
Domestic travel dwindled from 23,000 passengers flying in and out of Auckland airport each day, to about 600 passengers a day while the restrictions were in place.
1887
The research by Discovery Health, the country’s largest medical insurance administrator, calculated a 70% protection from hospitalization compared with the unvaccinated, and 33% protection against infection.
1888
Mr Coupe’s most significant professional experience is as the former CEO of Sainsbury’s … “Mr Coupe has no public health or health logistics background.
1889
Johnson told his ministers there would be a “huge spike” in cases, with the UK Health Security Agency suggesting there may have been as many as 200,000 Omicron cases on Monday alone.
1890
Sunak is said to have raised the point most recently during Wednesday’s meeting about “plan B” measures that more regular booster doses were not built into current spending plans.
1891
Further Covid restrictions between Christmas and New Year are under discussion in government, Dominic Raab has said, but stressed he believed plan B measures should be enough to allow people to spend the season with loved ones.
1892
Although about a dozen MPs rebelled over the rule of six a week previously, it was a new 10pm curfew and additional fines that prompted the biggest Covid rebellion yet as 42 MPs organised a symbolic vote against one of six restrictions that the Commons voted on.
1893
The carefully crafted sense of stability around English football began to crumble on Monday night after a record number of positive Covid-19 tests, with Manchester United’s Tuesday game at Brentford called off and the possibility of more postponements to come.
1894
The modelling analysis was published in The Lancet Public Health.
“However, Covid-19 certification alone is not a silver bullet for improving vaccine uptake and must be used alongside other policies.
1895
, the government’s response, relying entirely on the vaccine booster programme, is missing the wider measures required to control the spread of Omicron, including protecting millions of people who will not be eligible for the booster programme by the end of December.”
1896
“The NHS is already under enormous pressure, and scaling up in this way will be a huge challenge,” said Chris Hopson, the chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents hospitals and other NHS trusts.
1897
Sajid Javid has fuelled Tory anger over the government’s plan B Covid measures before votes that are expected to mark the biggest rebellion of Boris Johnson’s premiership.
1898
Premiership clubs are facing tighter Covid-19 restrictions in light of the spread of the Omicron variant with new measures expected to be finalised this week.
1899
He said the company’s advice had been “basically, keep going as you are – if you want to work from home you can do that, if you need to work from the office or you want to because it helps with your mental health, you can do that”.
1900
The budget airline Ryanair has divided opinion on social media with a barb aimed at the UK government’s latest travel restrictions and Covid-prevention measures.
In a widely shared tweet, Ryanair posted a chart that mocked the government’s own Covid alert graphics, comparing the rising Covid alert status a result of the threat of the Omicron variant to rising levels of partying among government figures.
1901
Headteachers are warning of “chaos” in England’s schools as Omicron sweeps across the country, with high levels of staff and pupil absences and reports that parents are planning to keep children home to avoid the virus before Christmas.
1902
Even if there were 20 million adults still to have a booster that would require administering almost 1 million doses a day, and that is without accounting for Christmas Day and Boxing Day when the appetite for giving and receiving boosters is likely to be low.
1903
Hospitals are already operating at between 94% and 96% capacity, the organisation which represents NHS trusts has warned, as Sajid Javid said that there had been no known deaths from the Omicron variant in English hospitals so far.
1904
Dozens of backbenchers – and some junior ministerial aides – have expressed opposition to requiring people attending large events to prove their vaccine status or a recent negative test result.
1905
Studies show that a booster dose increases the levels of antibodies significantly above the level seen after two doses, which some hope means waning immunity will occur more slowly after a third dose, though insufficient time has passed to determine if this is the case.
1906
Much damage has already been done, with mutinous MPs furious at the prime minister allowing a “one rule for them” narrative to take hold, from Cummings to Matt Hancock and more recently Owen Paterson.
1907
Tuesday’s Premier League match between Brentford and Manchester United has been placed in doubt after a number of Ralf Rangnick’s squad tested positive for Covid-19.
1908
The hardliners are of a view that the country must learn to live with Covid and that a cycle of fresh restrictions whenever a new threat is thrown up by the pandemic is not a sustainable way to live, nor the right way to govern the country.
1909
Boris Johnson will deliver a televised address to the nation at 8pm on Covid booster vaccines amid growing concern about the highly-infectious Omicron variant.
1910
People are advised to get a box of seven lateral flow tests free of charge from NHS test and trace either through pharmacies, schools or home delivery by ordering online, and then report their results.
1911
Norfolk county council’s executive director of adult social services, James Bullion, said it decided to channel 75% of the workforce grant it received so far to home care providers because of the acute shortages.
1912
Boris Johnson ‘worst possible leader at worst possible time’
, says Starmer – video
He is the worst possible leader at the worst possible time.”
1913
But if Omicron is found to evade existing immunity quite easily, while booster campaigns provide poor overall protection, then the country faces a very grim winter with strict restrictions needed for some time.
1914
MPs will vote in the Commons on Tuesday on a range of Plan B measures that Johnson and his ministers have agreed are needed to slow the spread of the Omicron variant, which scientists now believe will overtake Delta as the dominant strain by the end of this month.
1915
On that same Friday evening when Johnson and his ministers met, however, the last thing on the minds of some members of his staff at Downing Street – and a favoured few across Whitehall departments – was a new variant or fresh Covid rules.
1916
Downing Street staff were often required to be in the office to work on the pandemic response so those who were in the office for work may have attended virtually from their desks.
1917
A spokesperson insisted it was a “small number” of staff who celebrated around their desks, despite reports putting the number closer to two dozen civil servants at the event.
1918
In March, Russia’s state veterinary service announced that it had approved a Covid-19 vaccine called Karnivak-Kov for use on fur farms or for cats and dogs, after clinical trials on arctic foxes, cats, dogs and mink.
1919
Beyond the direct problems this causes with disease progression and vulnerability to Covid – people with advanced or uncontrolled HIV are far more likely to die from coronavirus – is the risk that uncontrolled HIV is driving the emergence of Covid variants.
1920
No 10 said the prime minister was in his flat “solely with his family” on the evening in question and the spokesperson denied knowledge of any gathering.
1921
Boris Johnson’s official spokesperson said the decision was taken to shelve plans for a No 10 Christmas gathering this year after the move to implement plan B, but stressed other people were still free to go ahead with theirs.
1922
Nigeria’s health minister, Osagie Ehanire, said last week: “The foundation is not strong.
And if you don’t have a strong foundation, there’s not much you can build on top.”
1923
Alongside the alleged party on 18 December, Case will include in his review a confirmed gathering at the Department for Education’s Whitehall headquarters on 10 December last year, and a reported leaving event for a No 10 aide – allegedly attended by Johnson – on 27 November.
1924
More than two in three Covid vaccines are now given at pharmacies, the White House has said, but pharmacies are facing a double bind of increased workloads and staffing shortages and are struggling to keep up with demand for vaccination appointments.
1925
In a small study, test subjects wore the masks, and after eight hours the filters were removed and sprayed with a chemical that glows under ultraviolet light if the virus is present.
1926
With at least 30 Conservative MPs already expected to vote against regulations on masks, home working and vaccine passports, and many more now vowing to stay away from Tuesday’s vote, the prime minister could be left relying on Labour support to win.
1927
The sprawl of alleged Covid rule-breaking parties across Westminster last Christmas is widening, as the cabinet secretary, Simon Case, placed 10 Downing Street and the Department for Education under investigation over alleged “gatherings”.
1928
South Africa’s biggest private healthcare provider, Netcare, said data from its facilities indicated less severe Covid symptoms in the current fourth wave than in previous waves.
1929
The investigation by Simon Case, the cabinet secretary, was initially unveiled on Wednesday as only looking into a party inside Downing Street on 18 December last year, following the release of video footage showing No 10 staff joking about it.
1930
Some health professionals working at Covid-19 vaccine sites say inviting younger patients before a national announcement is made only helps protect their local population more quickly, especially amid concerns over the rapid spread of the Omicron variant.
1931
An Italian dentist who presented a fake arm for a Covid vaccine says he has since been jabbed and that the vaccine “is the best weapon we have against this terrible disease”.
1932
Given how many parties are now under the spotlight, Javid said Case was “not just looking at a particular date” but “free to look at whatever dates he wants to consider”.
1933
Uefa has confirmed that Tottenham’s Europa Conference League tie at home against Rennes on Thursday night is off in the wake of the alarming rise in Covid cases at the London club.
1934
“In the middle of a national crisis where we need to react quickly and need to know how to react, we need a government that can guide us; a government that we think of as ‘them’, and as dishonest, and as liars, is not the government we need right now.
1935
Three doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine are likely to protect against infection with the Omicron variant but two doses may not, according to laboratory data that will increase pressure to speed up booster programmes.
1936
One Whitehall official who saw the news about plan B breaking on Wednesday morning was left “aghast”.
But his appearance was pulled amid the crisis unfolding over the video.
1937
In a statement on Wednesday evening, he said: “The UK health security agency (UKHSA) estimates that the number of infections is approximately 20 times higher than the number of confirmed cases, and so the current number of infections is probably closer to 10,000.
1938
Finland has sustained some of Europe’s lowest incidences of the virus throughout the pandemic, recording more than 196,000 cases and 1,384 deaths in the country of 5.5 million people.
1939
The Brazilian government has been accused of seeking to turn the South American country into a haven for unvaccinated tourists after it shunned calls – including from its own health regulator – to demand proof of vaccination from visitors.
1940
January 2021 Dialysis patient Brian Pinker, 82, become the first person to receive the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine – which was approved for use in late December.
1941
Queensland has declared a “world-first” sub-lineage of Omicron but experts say it’s not a new variant or a new strain and more information is needed.
1942
People aged over 60 account for 35% of the total caseload and 84% of critically ill patients, including those whose immunities have waned since receiving their first two vaccine doses early this year.
1943
A mock televised press briefing is held in which an adviser to Johnson is seen joking with Allegra Stratton, the prime minister’s then press secretary, about “a Downing Street Christmas party on Friday night”.
1944
Aides in Downing Street will now be agonising over whether this latest story about the Christmas party has the dreaded quality of “cut through” with the public.
1945
Researchers say it is too early to know whether the new form of Omicron will spread in the same way as the standard Omicron variant, but that the “stealthy” version is genetically distinct and so may behave differently.
1946
The Omicron coronavirus variant is “already everywhere” and travel bans will not stop its spread, the World Health Organization’s top Europe official has said, as the archbishop of Canterbury called for the scrapping of a “travel apartheid”.
1947
A businessman who has a severe nut allergy has accused the UK government of endangering his life after he was served nuts and traces of nuts during hotel quarantine after returning from a work trip to South Africa.
1948
The WHO has long championed the need for children to stay in school, but Kluge said the level of infection had to be addressed through the use of masks, ventilation and potentially vaccination programmes for the young.
1949
The chief inspector of schools also criticised the “hokey-cokey education” that children have endured during the pandemic, saying that nearly every child in England suffered as a result, including vulnerable children who “disappeared from teachers’ line of sight”.
1950
The number of children in England who died fell to 3,067 between April 2020 and March 2021 – 356 fewer than were recorded in the previous 12 months – with the fall particularly marked in under-10s and those with underlying health problems.
1951
For those who started with the Pfizer jab, receiving a second dose of the Moderna vaccines jab resulted in 1.3 times as many neutralising antibodies than with two doses of Pfizer; while receiving Novavax as the second jab resulted in 20% fewer antibodies.
1952
Cummings, who left his role as Boris Johnson’s top aide in autumn 2020, accused his former boss of having “set the course of lying on Covid in spring when he decided to start rewriting history”.
1953
The parliamentary answer to Rayner demonstrates that almost two-thirds of these 71 contracts awarded before the formal due diligence process were given out after referrals from the “VIP lane”.
1954
New analysis by Labour reveals the total number of booster vaccinations currently being administered remains significantly below the number of jabs that were being delivered at the same point in the first vaccine rollout earlier this year.
1955
The warning comes as new figures released by the People’s Vaccine Alliance show that the number of booster or third jabs administered in the UK is about the same as the total number of fully vaccinated people across all of the world’s poorest countries.
1956
Dominic Raab has become the first cabinet minister to concede that a “formal party” in Downing Street last December would have been contrary to Covid-19 guidance, saying it would have been “the wrong thing to do”.
1957
Ministers pledged measures introduced to halt the spread of the Omicron variant would be reviewed three weeks from when new mask-wearing and testing requirements were introduced.
1958
Two hippos at Antwerp zoo in Belgium have tested positive for Covid-19 in what could be the first reported cases in the species, staff said.
1959
If the variant is able to evade the immune response of young people, then the built-up immunity in the elderly – due to high levels of vaccination combined with natural infection – will be less meaningful.
1960
However, one senior health source said that although intensive mixing often occurrs in the run-up to Christmas, people would be expected to decrease that over Christmas itself.
1961
She didn’t know at the time that it would be the last flight she would take for many months, that she would miss her sister’s wedding, would need to counsel her family through hard times over Zoom.
1962
The United States and Australia became the latest countries to confirm locally transmitted cases of the variant, as Omicron infections pushed South Africa’s total cases past 3 million.
1963
Neil Coyle, Labour MP for Bermondsey and Old Southwark, wrote to the Met police commissioner, Cressida Dick, asking her to investigate reports that the prime minister spoke at a leaving do in November and also allowed a staff Christmas party to go ahead in December.
1964
Five people talk about what they were doing on the evening of 18 December 2020 and what they think about the allegations.
James Rose, 54, copywriter, London
1965
The terrible death of six-year-old Arthur Labinjo-Hughes, murdered by his stepmother Emma Tustin after weeks of abuse and torture, may be an outlier in terms of its sheer brutality but is unlikely to be the only case of its kind to emerge from the lockdown period.
1966
Among the concerns is whether Omicron might be infecting infants with more severe disease than previous variants, after a rise in admissions of under-fives to some hospitals.
1967
While the UK decided to make Covid jabs a condition of work for frontline health and social care workers, mandatory vaccination of the general population would be a very different matter.
1968
“The colour of the arm made me suspicious and so I asked the man to uncover the rest of his left arm.
Cirio and Icardi said the case would “border on the ridiculous”
1969
As health officials confirmed the first US case of the Omicron variant in California this week, the state’s rural north and Central Valley were still battling a wave of cases linked to the Delta variant and low vaccination rates.
1970
Anne Longfield told the BBC she was “heartbroken and totally sickened” by the case, in which Arthur was subjected to what prosecutors called a “campaign of appalling cruelty” and murdered just two months after social workers found no evidence of safeguarding concerns.
1971
We are hoping that schools reopen throughout the country so that there is more demand for pencils in the market Farooq Ahmed Wani, machine operator Before Covid, more than 2,500 people worked in the village’s 17 pencil factories and the industry supported about 250 families.
1972
Resources are not aligned to the magnitude of the disease Dr Enos Okumu Masini “Covid has made everything worse,” says Dr Enos Okumu Masini, who served as head of the national TB and lung disease programme and now works for the StopTB partnership.
1973
For the vaccinated, much of life opened up at midnight on Thursday: they could once again invite family and friends into their homes, plan a trip to the gym, drink in a bar, sit in a cafe and drink an espresso.
1974
The data shows that half-doses of Pfizer boosted antibody levels in the AstraZeneca group nearly 17 times and more than six times in those who had Pfizer for their first two shots.
1975
At that time Premier League clubs refused to release players for duty in countries on the UK’s red list, because at the time they would have been required to quarantine in a government-approved hotel for 10 days on their return to the UK.
1976
Just a day after the US announced its first case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus had been detected in California, health officials announced on Thursday it had also been found in a man who attended an anime convention in New York City in late November.
1977
The Scarlets are due to play their tournament opener at Bristol on 11 December, a day after finishing their 10-day coronavirus quarantine period just outside Belfast.
1978
Meta said the network focused on a fake Swiss biologist named Wilson Edwards who first emerged on 24 July 2021, claiming in Facebook and Twitter posts that the United States was pressuring the World Health Organization to blame the virus on China.
1979
“Kissing is likely to pose a risk as you are inevitably in very close contact with each other,” said Catherine Noakes, professor of environmental engineering for buildings at the University of Leeds, and a member of Sage.
1980
One pregnant woman told how she was forced to quit her job during the late stages of pregnancy over concerns about Covid safety in the workplace.
1981
Prof Alan Parker, from Cardiff University’s School of Medicine, said: “VITT only happens in extremely rare cases because a chain of complex events needs to take place to trigger this ultra-rare side effect. “
1982
The Omicron variant has fuelled a “worrying” surge in coronavirus cases in South Africa and is rapidly becoming the dominant strain, local health officials have said, as more countries including the US detected their first cases.
1983
Hancock was speaking after the deputy speaker, Eleanor Laing, responded to a point of order from Dodds by encouraging him to correct the record if he had misled the House of Commons.
1984
The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has been identified in new countries around the globe, including the US, west Africa, the Gulf and Asia, as American authorities indicated they would further tighten border controls over concerns that the new strain may be more transmissible.
1985
Sajid Javid has said delivering booster jabs is “our new national mission” for the NHS, as he hinted that demands for GPs to return to face-to-face appointments could be dropped to let them do more vaccinating.
1986
Though the number of people who migrated internationally increased to 281 million in 2020 – 9 million more than before Covid-19 – the number was 2 million lower than expected without a pandemic, according to the report.
1987
A doctor who was one of the first people in the world to become infected with the Omicron variant says he believes he caught the virus when he was in London for a major medical conference attended by more than 1,200 health professionals.
1988
About this data
As most approved vaccinations required two doses, a rate of 100 doses per 100 people does not mean full vaccination coverage.
1989
The researchers tracked the electronic health records of 13,638 patients who underwent a PCR test for Covid within the University of Florida health system, with 178 patients experiencing severe virus symptoms, 246 mild or moderate Covid-19 and the rest testing negative.
1990
Singapore said on Wednesday that it will require mandatory PCR testing for all travellers and additional antigen rapid tests for travellers on vaccinated travel lanes.
1991
Boris Johnson has contradicted leading scientists and one of his most senior health officials who advised people to cut back on unnecessary socialising in response to Omicron, as he urged people not to cancel their Christmas parties or nativity plays.
1992
“We have found the Omicron coronavirus variant in two test samples that were taken on November 19 and 23,” the Dutch health ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.
1993
Two members of the Cardiff party have already tested positive for Covid, with one case suspected to be the Omicron variant, and plans to fly the rest of the squad home are still dependent on the latest round of testing results.
1994
The second measure, which will force close contacts of a positive Covid case carrying the Omicron variant to isolate for 10 days regardless of their vaccine status, amends existing regulations on isolation, due to expire in mid-March 2022.
1995
“Because you do realize that other countries are paying attention, and they realize that if they’re going to get punished for telling the world about new variants, they’re going to stop telling the world whenever their scientists discover new variants.
1996
Every eligible adult in the UK should be offered a Covid booster by the end of January as ministers race to increase protection against the Omicron variant, Boris Johnson has announced.
1997
I’ll just have to try again.” ‘I’m worried about missing Christmas with family’ Hannah*, 23, hasn’t been visited to be given a booster jab, despite being clinically vulnerable.
1998
Quickly deploying vaccines to countries where Omicron is detected but vaccination rates remain low would be a major step toward halting transmission of the variant, and access to the vaccines and vaccine hesitancy must also be addressed, he said.
1999
“In the same way that the variants have different impacts on our immune system, and therefore the concerns we have about vaccine effectiveness, some of those same effects can influence the way our bodies respond to the virus and the symptoms we have.
2000
, he said.
Nobody really knows.
What I do know is that nobody is up for another run around the track.”
But we just don’t know.
2001
A new round of tests have discovered no new cases among the players but quarantine rules mean the team must stay in South Africa, a situation club officials are hoping to rectify.
2002
Australia said it would delay reopening its international borders by two weeks after reporting its first Omicron cases, and India enforced mandatory on-arrival testing for flyers from a dozen countries including South Africa and Britain.
2003
These will then be exposed to antibody-carrying blood plasma from vaccinated people and those who have recovered from Covid infection to see if they neutralise the virus.
2004
The threat posed by the “highly mutated” Omicron variant shows what a “perilous and precarious” situation the world is in, the head of the World Health Organization (WHO) has said, as he warned that the pandemic would not end until every country has access to vaccines.
2005
“The best place for children to be is in a classroom, learning,” the former vaccines minister told ITV’s This Morning programme: “Keep schools open: do all the things necessary, like face masks in communal areas … to protect the education in the classroom.
2006
The Essex director of public health, Dr Michael Gogarty, said on Monday that it took seven days to receive confirmation of its case after the person noticed symptoms and was tested on 20 November.
2007
Dutch police have arrested a married couple who fled a quarantine hotel to get a flight out of the country, despite at least one of them testing positive for Covid on arrival in the Netherlands from South Africa, where the new Omicron variant was first identified.
2008
It was sent to Tlaleng Mofokeng, a South African doctor and health campaigner who is the UN’s special rapporteur on physical and mental health, and has the power to launch an investigation under the UN’s human rights council.
2009
G7 health ministers will hold an emergency meeting on Monday about the new Omicron Covid-19 variant spreading across the world and forcing border closures, as experts race to determine the level of threat posed by the new strain.
