0
Hospitals


To address that, researchers are using health data from other countries such as Britain, Denmark, South Africa and Qatar to project what could be in store.
1
The deaths are mainly attributable to Covid-19, as well as conditions that may have resulted from delayed medical care and overwhelmed health systems.
2
But
vaccinations in the US
.


But off-label use of unapproved vaccines is never allowed, Yvonne Maldonado, professor of pediatric infectious
3
in indoor public
mask
-pandemic opening hours and full capacity for the first time in almost
those
Europe region, said this month that vaccine
4
have
on the amount of beer it sold, and that Covid-19 was expected to continue affecting trade.


In the UK, beer sales
drink sales
increase
5
George
Villanueva, who has criticized mask orders and said he will not fire workers who refuse the vaccine, said such an act could lead to more than 4,000 unvaccinated deputies losing their jobs.
6
Health
Guatemalan agencies on medical research funded by the US government.
Commission for the Study of Bioethical


The study was inspired by harmful
7
They say their goal is to help families find evidence
”

While social media has played an outsized role in driving this misinformation, it can also be used to provide accurate information, Greene said.
8
– such as trying to vaccinate them
continues to emphasize that the risk of catching Covid from animals is very low.
in deer is nothing new
.
9
”

Spotify this weekend removed several of the songs flagged to it by the Observer, which it said breached rules banning content that promotes “dangerous, false, or deceptive content about Covid-19” that may pose a threat to public health.
10
They weren’t.”

Sources said the government is poised to axe Randstad, the Dutch multinational company appointed to deliver the programme, after revelations that pupil enrolment is more than 90% below target.
11
2 April 2020
Treasury and business
The cost of inaction would have been far greater than the cost of fraud and error in the support schemes.
12
, Johnson faces the prospect of at least some staff being fined for breaking lockdown rules, with police saying this seems likely.
resigned
13
A man who wanted to join the protests in Canada’s capital over mask mandates called in a bomb threat so police would waste their time chasing it, authorities said, but he called the wrong Ottawa — a village in Ohio.
14
Its research spending rose by 62% to $9.7bn.


AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine is far cheaper than
Among its 13 blockbuster medicines
Analysts say
15
has consequences for individual students, their families and the economy.
.
A lot of her classmates are having trouble, she said.
Prevention
16
In Wisconsin, Wirtz-Olsen said the current challenges underscore the need to improve working conditions both
She worries about the loss of routine and what it means for students.
17
”

The CDC’s director, Rochelle Walensky, also recently said that “now is not the moment” to drop masks in public, although the agency is reportedly weighing changes to its guidance on masks.
18
Businesses


In the capital, Transport for London passengers will still be required to wear masks when they travel onbuses, trains and the underground.
19
s pandemic adjuvant, a formula added to Covid vaccines developed by others to make them more effective, generated sales of £447m.

Aside from Xevudy, GSK received US regulatory approval last year for the cancer drug Jemperli and Apretude
20
welfare



.
for the convoy, said on Monday that the protesters wanted to go home but would not leave until the “job is done”.


The initial
21
According to the document, Karas provided “exceptional medical care” to inmates


“If you talk to individuals at our local hospitals that are treating patients
22
The development of mRNA vaccines
its vaccines


According to Reuters, Pfizer has sold the vaccine to African countries at $3 to $10 a shot.
23
The AZ vaccine was celebrated as a UK


The European Medicines Agency approved the jab for all adults of all ages.
but put age restrictions on the vaccine, the BBC said.
24
”

The climate crisis is driving more extreme weather events across
She didn’t make it to a warming center with a diesel generator, according to the Texas Observer.
25
Joe is the answer
on his podcast
against Covid misinformation on the streaming service wiped more than $2bn off its market value last week.
26
In a vaccination centre
”

The second group refuse the vaccine for religious reasons.
For that, the government needs a culturally sensitive communications strategy.
27
CDC


“The absence of paid sick leave is an absolute scandal,” Hanage said.
“A lot of that comes down to: how much illness and death will people accept?
28
Spiegelhalter adds that his analysis has also shown that the pandemic has been a net lifesaver for younger people.
“We showed that Shipman could have been caught much earlier.
29
The winter surge in infections has also had an impact, since people have to wait 28 days after their infection has cleared before they can be boosted.
30
exercise
, Lancashire, cancelled his gym membership when the pandemic hit but couldn’t wait to get back.
It floated in 2019
Blackwells Capital
31
In more conventional times, Trump’s Operation Warp Speed, which developed vaccines in record time, would be a source of pride for his voters.
32
The results won’t be finalized until next month, but the two candidates in the lead to replace Moty attended a celebration on Tuesday with members of an area militia group, the Sacramento Bee reported.
33
Nor is Covid-19 finished with the United States: Jha said the US could reach 1 million deaths by April.
”

The toll came as Omicron
Health Director
34
The news comes at a sensitive time for the Biden
” because of the timing of the survey and suggesting that the US would add few or even lose jobs in January.
35
the compulsory measure in mid-January, it has done everything to undermine, soften and make its own project redundant,” wrote Munich
Vienna
36
coronavirus variant kept customers at home but said it was hopeful of better performance as commuters return to offices.
Over the first four months
37
India actually reached 500,000 deaths last year when it was hit by a devastating rise in Delta variant cases that brought its health care system close to collapse.
38
Despite a slight resurgence in 2021, trips taken on all modes of public transit are still around half of what they were before the pandemic, federal government figures show.
39
stress”, meaning that more than 10% of their hospitalizations were due to Covid-19, according to data compiled by National Public
Administration
40
force, have already begun to remove those who have chosen not to receive a Covid vaccine, which were first authorized for emergency use in December 2020.
41
Over the past year, the clinic, which meets three half days a month, has seen 47 patients, with over one-third of those patients coming in September, October and November.
42
With the cost of living rising, Threadneedle Street data showed a marked drop in December in the amounts being deposited in savings accounts and national savings.
43
Liz Truss has tested positive for Covid, shortly after sitting in a packed House of Commons without wearing a mask.
Ukraine
Tuesday
Monday
.
44
O’Leary said recent bookings had improved after the easing of travel restrictions


Neil Sorahan told the Telegraph: “Masks will be something that will be with us for a while longer to come.
45
video

Andrew Mitchell, a Tory MP and former cabinet minister, said Johnson “no longer enjoys” his support.
Johnson was also present another of the parties under investigation by police
At least some of the gatherings in question represent a serious failure to observe not just the high standards expected of those working at the heart of government but also of the standards expected of the entire British population at the time.
46
In Switzerland, meanwhile, experts who studied both Swiss and German
numbers of admissions to ICUs”


The finding followed a call last week by an alliance of Swiss
Italy
47
In November 2019, the US was ranked first of 195 countries for pandemic preparedness
The US response involved “basically 50 governors going
administration
48
respondents in relationships
partners were also more likely to experience all forms of intimate partner violence.
In the US, the domestic violence hotline is 1-800-799-SAFE (7233).
49
Wu
”

Ivermectin is an
some
after
on the UK’s death toll from the pandemic, claiming that some doctors were seeking to add non-Covid deaths
–
50
Ivermectin is an
studies
,


He also points out that there are new treatments that have proven effective in treating Covid, like Paxlovid.
51
.
Albanese said the federal government was leaving business
”

The treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, argued on Friday Australia was “transitioning
52
They are upset that more than
-old daughter, said she understands that the FDA wants to ensure the vaccine is safe and doesn’t place blame on a particular group.
53
”

The move ratcheted up the dispute over controversial podcasts by the comedian
by Spotify


According to Mitchell’s Spotify page, she has 3.7m monthly listeners to her music.
54
Scientists
that relies only on low-tech kit and a smartphone, which could be used as a quicker, cheaper alternative to PCR testing.
Isothermal
55
The FoI request to the ONS asked for all deaths in which Covid had been given as the sole cause on the death certificate, which is about a tenth of the generally stated toll.
56
Interruption


In the FoI response, BEIS disclosed that there “was no longer an electronic record
that “requests would need to be directed through BEIS officials”, said the FT.
57
The manager of Elio’s restaurant told the New York Times it was investigating Palin’s Saturday visit and that the restaurant had made a “mistake”.


Vaccines offer
58
The US government’s main health agency is failing to meet its responsibilities for leading the national response to public health emergencies
59
As a teacher with more than 40 years’ experience, I know only too well that children and young people tend to be much more profoundly influenced by the things that they see adults in authority do as opposed to the things adults tell them to do.
60
She quickly submitted applications for home


Familiar with her rights a parent, Healy did not let the caseworker inside


In New York City, approximately 90% of children named in ACS
spokesperson pointed out that the agency was legally obliged to investigate all reports


In Healy’s case, the caseworker fast
and education
61
Investors who heed its recommendations could embarrass the company by voting against its remuneration report at Thursday morning’s annual shareholder meeting.
62
The move prompted a shareholder rebellion earlier
It has claimed a further £5.2m in business rates relief and £400,000 in job support payments since.
63
In a press briefing on Wednesday, the White House Covid-19 response coordinator, Jeff Zients, said the donation is four
cases
daily deaths
64
”

Terry Pratchett’s estate has authorised Monroe to use the Vimes Boots index as the name of the new price index, which is intended to document the “insidiously creeping prices” of basic food products.
but it was suspended during
65
My kids’ preferred condiment is strawberry jam and Mum’s face drops: “We’ve got none,” she says.


In my peripheral
spy
Dad’s speciality is stir
66
, the risk of Covid-19 death has continued to be higher in most ethnic minority groups than in the white British group.
to vaccinate adolescents
67
”

Supply has dipped because people are going back to work.


When Muncey’s daughter was born three weeks early, the Nicu team said donor milk might help her gain weight.
68
investigation
”

Former No 10 staffers have told the Guardian that the police inquiry will uncover evidence which has not yet been submitted to Gray.
69
said the Scotland Yard inquiry was a “different ballgame”, adding: “Officials who don’t tell Sue Gray the whole truth will not hold back from the cops.
70
on Tuesday after state officials told
That rule ended in June 2021
Earlier this month, the state health department said the mandate would be in place until 1 February.
71
s


The family said that while had received excellent care at Brigham and Women’s, they do not agree with the policy.
It’s his choice.
”
72
non-profit group, were widely condemned as offensive and ignorant.


Last month, he put out a video that showed Fauci in a Hitler moustache.
73
2018
said Bolsonaro’s guru had helped import “a kind of tropicalized Fox News culture focused on gender, guns and anti-globalism”.
Olavista
74
– where the IMF’s growth forecast has been shaved by 1.2 points to 4%, but there were also cuts of 0.8 points for Germany and Canada, and 0.4 points for France and Italy.
75
in Phoenix
”

In his statement, he said: “My focus right now is on the safety of my staff who worked the floor that night, and on our guests.
76
Daily Mirror story, which said Downing Street staff continued to hold “wine
Buffet food was even laid on, despite indoor socialising being banned by the continuing Covid restrictions.
77
Walensky said health authorities will work to get people “up to date” on vaccines, though the agency will not change the official


People who have recently been double vaccinated or received their third
78
Kennedy
East Germany with my father,” Kennedy Jr told the anti-vaxxer crowd, “and met people who had climbed the [Berlin] Wall and escaped.
79
The Omicron wave has sent many staff


“You really need enough staff to try to stem the outbreak,” Konetzka said.
High vaccination rates among residents
80
– and these are the recent data that have come out


“Control means you’re not eliminating it, you’re not eradicating it, but it gets down to such
81
Unvaccinated workers at Next and Ikea are only eligible for statutory sick pay – which is set at £96.35 a week – during their 10 days of isolation, unless there are mitigating circumstances.
82
by Omicron
.
cookbook sales
Susie





The hiatus forced people


With the number of empty stores at a record high, the pandemic has left
83
Emergency


At a White House briefing, the CDC chief, Rochelle Walensky, said: “The data here show the protection provided



After nearly two weeks
84
“That’s three minutes,” a school official said.
”

Later that evening, board members voted to move from required universal masking to optional masking.
85
She said that when she phoned Royal Mail to complain, she faced a wait of about 50 minutes to speak to a customer service agent.
complaint
86
“It is becoming increasingly clear that a booster dose is needed to extend vaccine protection,” they added.


The following four phases are deceleration, control, elimination and eradication.
87
The banker entertained Credit Suisse clients at the men’s final, in which Novak Djokovic came from a set down to beat Matteo Berrettini, according to a person close to him.
88
-age children because they had the highest levels of infection in September and October, just before Omicron emerged.
by episode, although they have identified some possible third reinfections.
89
The spending is over and above the £2bn so far handed over from central NHS budgets to private hospitals during the pandemic.
,
hospitals
90
CNBC cited a 10 January presentation in which the company said it was facing a “significant reduction” in demand around the world as a result of price sensitivity
91
but warned that consumer confidence might take


“While we are encouraged with the recent government announcement that all plan B restrictions will be
92
In the latest incident, 129 passengers paid a remarkable price: a maskless “disruptive customer” forced American Airlines’ flight AAL38 flying from Miami to London to turn around and go back, the New
93
Austrians will receive a ticket for each shot of vaccine they take or have already taken, meaning those who have got their booster jab will hold three tickets.
94
”

The website says the company will “soon start testing different treatment approaches”, but a link encouraging people to “learn more” appeared to be broken when the Guardian attempted to access it.
95
State public education officials say volunteers from the national guard and state agencies can qualify for substitute teaching with as little as two hours of training and a two
96
Carhartt, the Michigan
-based workwear company
We’ve been loyal, we’ve been faithful and then now all of a sudden it’s like you’ve got to comply,”
97
adults
vaccination


Lagging vaccination rates have also contributed to schools struggling to stay open, as students and staff are sickened
98
that his administration had “outperformed” expectations despite the myriad crises facing
mistakes
president
“I’m not asking for castles in the sky,” he insisted.
99
WFTV


“I am sorry but in the absence of reasonable and real reasons it is irresponsible


Carlos Guillermo Smith, a Democratic state lawmaker, has called Pino’s suspension “political”.
100
The protest comes as schools across the country have struggled with the latest, Omicron
Nearly three of Akingbemi’s four high school years have been defined by Covid-19.
101
The signatories said this would be enough to:

Pay for the Health and Social Care Levy twice over every year – eliminating the need to raise national
102
The website, CovidTests.gov, features a form run by the US Postal


The White House estimates the cost of purchasing and distributing the first 500m tests at about $4bn.
103
trials actually reduces anxiety and makes patients take
or other localised symptoms at the injection site.
Kaptchuk argues for more information
104
Credit Suisse
he allegedly should have been in quarantine according to UK laws.
Osório led Britain’s biggest high street bank past near-collapse during 2011
105
In New York City the rolling seven
Just one
facilities have issued calls for help, saying they were struggling to treat a surging patient load.
106
at an Arkansas jail
, the lawsuit said,

In a letter sent by his attorney last September, Karas told a state medical board examiner that 254 inmates
107
”

This month, Darius Hughes, the UK chief executive of Moderna, said it would be a “stretch” for a combined flu and Covid vaccine to be available by winter 2023.
108
-Osório had overseen, and added it would carry it out in a “timely and disciplined manner, without distraction”.
the bank admitted hiring private detectives
109
BBC


“I’m glad you recognise that all this stuff about the government bringing stuff in the weekend is not true, because work through policies based on our manifesto commitment,” Zahawi told Today.
”

Asked how Johnson could persuade people he was serious about the issue, Zahawi said: “
.
, and come back in and continue to work, and he apologised for it.
110
1.3bn


While people on more modest incomes have also seen their assets rise in value during the pandemic, Oxfam said the 10 richest men own six times as much wealth as the bottom
111
Six Conservative MPs had publicly called for Johnson’s resignation
, and he reported that calls for the PM to quit were “almost universal”.
112
The 55 year-old placed


Despite the sweeping and ambiguous language, the governor’s power to intervene in local school districts is limited.
113
civil unrest
The world No 1’s choice not to get vaccinated would
”

Divna Vukadin said the Australian move was clearly politically motivated.
114
January 15, 2022

Police said the woman’s own booster dose was fake and arrested her on charges of forgery and embezzlement.
After completing
115
concerned about Royal Mail delays.
” She said the Royal Mail should be required to publish performance data by individual postcode districts and introduce public
116
The Tory MP Tobias Ellwood, a former foreign office minister, said that Johnson had to demonstrate within days that he could end the chaos for good and demonstrate a new kind of leadership.
117
MSNBC


The vaccines do offer excellent individual


Covid vaccines are very good at protecting individuals’ lives, and they have certainly saved a lot of them.
118
The team, led by
mRNA vaccines


The process to create the vaccine involves
the use of yeast
All the [vaccines] are part of the solution.
119
Educational


Also last week, the governor created a third program that is likely to run afoul of treasury department spending rules.
wearing
120
To prevent the outright cancellation of entire seasons, theatre companies are now relying
Glace
”

There’s no training in how to understudy, Taufa adds.
121
However, Texas has reported a test positivity rate of more than 35% over the past week, WFAA.com reported, as the Texas department of state and health services said “Covid has never spread this fast” in the state.
122
the spread of Omicron days before its release and has become the only film to make more than $1.5bn (£1.1bn) globally since the pandemic began.
123
rates in Mississippi


Some school systems in Alabama were also temporarily moving back to remote learning as a result of the continuing surge.
124
The Philippine government has defended a controversial ban that prevents unvaccinated people from using public


The rise in cases has placed a strain on public
125
The vaccine mandate that the court will allow to be enforced nationwide


Earlier on Thursday, Biden announced plans to send 1,000 military medical personnel
Administration
126
Morrisons supermarket
isolate


“Paying different rates of sick pay is not as aggressive a policy as introducing a ‘no jab
”

He said some
127
disruption delayed deliveries


The retailer said in September it was experiencing supply chain disruption, after


The retailer closed more than
128
-up since September 2020 has raised the retailer’s profile with a younger audience and helped broaden its appeal.
1m of which were sold
garments
129
in England
patients
– staff are catching it and having to self-isolate.


They’re still doubling up patients in ITU [intensive therapy units]
130
decline
cases
40
country’s blood supply, has had to limit blood product distributions to hospitals.
transfusions
According to the Red Cross,
131
Most cruise companies are requiring passengers to be fully vaccinated
the case surge is nonetheless causing headaches for cruise operators and passengers.
132
Authorities said even as Omicron shatters records for new cases, they are hopeful the surge will quickly subside, and said the US needs to focus on ensuring hospital
133
internal
Audit
10
”

He would now like to see a more thorough investigation, and cited another NAO report, published last year, which said: “
134
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk<br>

It added that the government support also “offset incremental costs due the pandemic” including protective equipment for staff and other health & safety measures as well as the multimillion
135
health
experts
.
tech
In Maryland, hospitals are 87% full, according to official reports –
The measures just need to be taken, Thornton said.
136
Other property agencies have reported a return of overseas investors, particularly from Hong Kong.
the broker Shore Capital’s forecast of annual pre
137
.


The judgment noted that gowns supplied by PestFix were deemed unsuitable
PestFix with respect to the FFP3 masks and the gowns.
chair
PPE
.
138
The group said it expected to offset these increased costs through charging higher rates for rooms in its 800 Premier Inn hotels, as well as through cost efficiencies and by growing its estate.
139
But there’s nothing to be done,” Soranz said, noting how
in mass graves
Paulo seeing a “vertiginous increase” in infections similar to that in Europe.
140
However, the prime minister has indicated he is in favour of further reducing the quarantine time to five days, if backed by scientific evidence.
141
The prison has a staff vaccination rate of 84%, the highest in the state
have warned that unvaccinated prison staff could lead to another deadly Covid
142
“Those who refuse to get the shot bring a financial burden to hospital staff and Quebecers.
Dr Horacio
undoubtedly
its plan to fight the virus.
143
Fire
US


The highly contagious Omicron
Some hospitals in



On Monday the White House said insurance companies will be required to cover eight over
144
said there had been an element of entitlement about the decision to ignore the rules, with a common theme that those working there felt they “deserved” the privilege after all they had been through.
145
Sir Henry Wellcome in 1936
Omicron


The trust’s annual report showed that pay packets surged at its investment team after the record returns.
146
Rising inequality and security challenges are particularly harmful
that would


“In a time of high debt, global cooperation will be essential
147
Questioned by Wragg before the PACAC, Evans said that overall, the system to enforce ethical standards in governments was “very weak in comparison to where we believe it should be”.
148
And other viruses, such as Ebola, have become more dangerous over time.
to improve surveillance for new variants, and supporting countries to tackle outbreaks at source when they emerge.
149
The new policy comes amid record resignations and burnout among health workers two years into the pandemic.
Barbara Ferrer
“Vaccinated individuals are between
150
”

He said sales had risen in every part of the world, an unusual trend, with Greater China and the Americas remaining the two biggest markets, each at 30% of sales.
sales


According to the latest accounts filed at
151
variant has exacerbated staff shortages and sparked fierce debates about how to reopen classrooms safely.


The inconsistency can wear on students, as well.
152
Omicron


Walensky also emphasised the importance of vaccination and booster shots, saying: “We have seen with the Omicron variant that prior
153
“The reality is that everyone is fatigued by the pandemic, and at this point everyone knows they should be doing what they can to stay safe.
154
According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), most animal
”

In December, three snow leopards at the Lincoln Children’s Zoo in Nebraska died
155
-Fairbanks school district said police were “alerted that a child was in the trunk of a car
The charge against her was filed on Wednesday but not made public until Friday.
156
”

She also noted staff and students haven’t received enough personal protective equipment
She has been tutoring and teaching remotely part-time, while relying
157
Justice Elena Kagan, who was previously solicitor general, said officials have shown “quite clearly that no other policy will prevent sickness and death to anywhere like the degree that this one will”.
158
-headquartered bank said in October that it would require all US employees to be vaccinated


The decision to enforce the mandate comes as Wall Street banks have struggled
159
The measures approved on Friday will be the first in Japan since last September, when a dramatic fall in cases prompted the government to end months of restrictions in many parts of the country.
Japan
160
disruptions also raise alarms about risks to students.
More than a third of Philadelphia’s 216 public schools have switched to remote learning through at least Friday.
161
The bookmaker Ladbrokes has claimed nearly £102m from the UK government’s furlough
money claimed, while the Paddy Power owner Flutter did not make any claims for furlough cash
162
Riverford
£
24.75
this season
“Our growers and farmers need this to cover the increasing costs of labour and fuel, and to reinvest in the farm.
163
There have been an estimated



Previous crises pale in comparison to the pandemic, Davison said.
“The deaths that are being reported as Covid deaths greatly
164
Florida


“While facing the strain of workforce challenges, ERs are being put under increased pressure to provide care,” the organization stated.
165
Until recently, the US military did not adhere to Japan’s policy of testing incoming travellers for the virus on arrival and requiring them to quarantine for two weeks.
166
Santos, 32, said she had decided to ban unjabbed


Chaves said the Bolsonaro pizza was sprinkled with chicken, olives and two portions of palm hearts
167
The chief executive of one trust in the north of England said it has had to scale back non-urgent surgery after the number of Covid inpatients it is treating soared by 80% since Christmas Eve.
168
Cox said she had also seen a sharp uptick in cases among pregnant people
– even though he works with many children who are at risk because of other medical conditions.
169
School districts nationwide


In response to union concerns, the district said it had provided 200,000 KN95 masks to teachers, would allow schools
170
York state education law
vaccines
thing
Aaron Glatt, the chair of the department of medicine at Mount Sinai South Nassau, told NBC New York.
171
The vaccine
that
.
The difference with Cuba is that for [most economic] decision-making, there isn’t anyone but the state.
against Omicron
172
The prime minister, Fumio Kishida, could announce the measures this week, the Mainichi newspaper said, after Okinawa officials reported 225 new cases on Tuesday, including 47 of the Omicron strain.
173
Hospitals in Greater Manchester
hospitals


“The bed modelling suggests these challenges may get worse, not better, in the next week or two.
174
“I can come in later to avoid peak travel time.
everyone
Aviva are among those who have decided to keep their office
.


Inside the City’s historic
175
Many Americans are relying


Others are keeping their doors open by reducing quarantine periods for workers, according to new and controversial guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
176
Lancaster Infirmary
”

Cummins wrote that one issue at his trust was that “seriously sick patients are waiting too long to be admitted and there are
177
The extremist Republican Marjorie Taylor Greene “might be a Democrat – or just an idiot”
”

Greene has been repeatedly fined for failing
federally
178
he said: “An epidemic reaching such high numbers can’t sustain those numbers forever.


“The vaccine is working and that’s the best way to stop the transmission, and to stop
179
She also found that teachers are most likely to leave the labor force as compared to their counterparts in other industries.


For Heggeness, these trends suggest both an
180
despite Fauci saying the extra dose represents “optimal”
’”

In Washington DC, meanwhile, Congress is experiencing an unprecedented rise in Covid-19
181
,
centre in Aylesbury


Hopson said a number of trusts across the country had declared “internal critical incidents” over the past few days.
182
A quarter of the flights at New York’s three major airports were delayed or canceled as well.
US flights, and more than 4,700 worldwide.
183
Administration
Federal regulators
just over half that age group


Pfizer is studying its vaccine, in even smaller doses, for children younger than five.
184
She also accused Twitter of seeking “a communist revolution” and said: “Social media platforms can’t stop the truth from being spread far and wide.
185
a subway ride featuring a brawl requiring the attendance of police, then the challenge of negotiating Manhattan traffic on a rented bike.


“This is an amazing city,” the new mayor told ABC on Sunday.
186
The US government’s top medical adviser, Dr Anthony Fauci, has joined a growing body of experts who say
infection
that
30% of the people are ill.
“
187
The US seven
In nearby
”

In New York, the state’s top health official warned of a “striking increase” in pediatric Covid-19 hospitalizations.
188
But she had decided not to get the booster.
“Just looking at the data proved that Covid is a much greater risk than any of my worst fears about the vaccine affecting my pregnancy.
t
189
In reporting data on Covid, health departments should now take the same approach as they do with influenza, Gandhi said.
Hopkins Bayview
.
190
t accessible.
I go out and shake hands


It prepares students for college, and is a huge self esteem booster.
Something happened to my tire when I
191
Susan Treagus

Manchester

Well now, Tim, you might feel more inclined to eat a smidgen of Marmite regularly if you knew that the vitamin
192
cases are higher than ever, hospitals are having to call in visiting help & cancel elective surgeries, and FDNY is pleading with the public not to call 911.
193
MSCI


The speciality chemicals producer Croda gained


“The second half of the year has seen a little more volatility than the first half
–
194
2,400 flights were canceled


The Christmas holidays are typically a peak time for air travel, but the rapid spread of the highly transmissible Omicron


The sudden arrival of Omicron
195
in Europe and America


The latest figures from Our World in Data show that dozens of countries have vaccinated at least two



Covid-19 deaths
196
tests but are not given access to lateral flow tests from their institutions and must seek their own, after a change in guidance over the summer.
197
“We expect the number of Covid cases in the north-east [US] where most of our crew members are based to continue to surge for the next week or two,” a JetBlue spokesperson said.
198
that he breached Covid rules in Switzerland at the end of November, having flown out of the country within three days of arriving
Archegos Capital
199
Omicron
who have been inoculated, even if the effectiveness of the shots decreases over time, he said.
the UN health agency also noted a decline
200
The Global Times newspaper said that the courts and the Ministry of Public Security had issued various orders since the 1980s to ban the parading of criminal suspects, noting that officials themselves could now be punished.
201
as of Sunday, according to NBC 4 New York.
”

Nathan said that her response note to jurors would state that deliberations will continue “as needed, every day going forward … until you reach a verdict”.
202
The CDC also investigates a crew-only ship if cases are reported in less than 1% of crew.
Cruise


The 86 cruise ships continue to sail, despite the investigation.
203
The CDC announced Tuesday that more than 1.5m shots had been administered in the previous 24 hours.


However, Omicron’s surge has caused disruptions in US economy again.
204
When you have so many risks that are threatening you, I think it’s important to be protected by vaccination and all the other [precautions].”

Yet there are many reasons why hesitations linger.
205
Organization


Oliver Males, an analyst at Spreadex, an online trading platform, said the falling value of UK travel stocks reflected record numbers of people infected with coronavirus in the US and much of Europe.
206
issued
Omicron
The figures show that US health authorities have administered 1,533,313 doses from a day earlier.
2,800 flights were canceled
207
During jury selection, Nathan said she would not exclude prospective panelists based on vaccination status.
, a detective brought a massage table into the courtroom.
208
In France, people with Covid must self-isolate for 10 days, while in Germany the mandatory self
mask
wearing
Health
Organization
were
worn
209
A new Covid variant derails the global economyIt


There is, though, a more systemic issue, which is that many emerging markets have borrowed heavily in US dollars often using future export earnings as collateral.
210
An effective and widely available treatment
disease


The US government pre
is ordering 1m more doses, with 300,000 to be made available in January.
211
Management








Employers have to verify and keep a record of each worker’s proof of vaccination.
Workers who have received only one shot
212
million members are work predominantly in public services, told
the Guardian: “Key health, council, care and police services have so many staff off that lots are
213
”

The support group user: ‘I’ve heard impactful stories in my online 12-step program’

While some have used tech to connect with old friends in the pandemic, others have found new communities they otherwise had not been able to access.
214
In Mount Vernon, a New York suburb, virtual learning is scheduled until at least 18 January.


“A surge of new cases has occurred in north
215
”

The family visits London often, but Fry said lockdown had taught them that more space, a garden and easy access to wide open natural spaces is “more important
216
the computer was given ever greater control and customers found themselves trapped in limbo.


Meanwhile, a new identity was the Brexit bonus for some startled
217
With the stress on health teams acute in some midwest states, some staff are working 16-hour shifts, the New York Times reported from Indiana.
218
– and an incredible and perplexing year of vaccine distribution.


“We really don’t know how well our vaccines will be holding up,” he said.
and
219
will lift the temporary travel restrictions
“

The restrictions have not prevented flights or Americans from returning from southern Africa.
220
Markets have been boosted in recent days by data suggesting
sensitive
Omicron
The value of the FTSE 100 companies dropped by £62bn that day.
221
In previous waves of Covid-19, Ashton was part of the government’s shielding schemes, which meant she had access to measures like statutory sick pay, medicine deliveries and priority shopping.
222
22 February 2021


Photographer: Filip Wolak

Raw sewage
up to the presidential inauguration, which happened just weeks after insurrectionists
Krisanne Johnson
223
Asked in a radio interview about the possibility


Hospitals like Chrisley’s are preparing for an even bigger surge, one that will put the most vulnerable residents at risk.
224
that


He used an
Sage
Omicron


Nelson wrote: “The 6,000 is the top of a rather long range of ‘scenarios’, not predictions.
order
.
reality.
225
”

The Hawaii Bowl is one of several postseason games


“We are very disappointed to hear that Hawaii will be unable to participate,” Memphis coach Ryan Silverfield said in a statement.
226
Disease
The home tests should be used immediately before getting together, since infectiousness can
then you’re safer, but it’s not completely safe,” Rasmussen said.
227
The brief court order said the court will hear oral arguments on 7 January in the two cases, with rulings likely to follow in short order.
228
“There’s no question” that Omicron outbreaks among healthcare workers are “significantly diminishing the
-line health workers reported feeling burned out.
CDC
229
As he did at the White House on Tuesday, the president emphasized that 200
Administration
However, Biden tested negative for the virus on Wednesday.
230
Shoppers and tourists
and
Springboard


He also feels shoppers are ready to spend money despite an increase in the wholesale cost of flowers.
231
Today
EU flights to and from Morocco.


Ryanair said it now expected to fly just under 100 million passengers in the year to the end of March.
232
Skiers heading for Austria will face increased restrictions
direction and relaxed some restrictions: fully vaccinated arrivals are now permitted to use cheaper lateral flow, rather than PCR,
233
gloss
,


The ONS said the output loss during the initial phase in the pandemic was smaller than thought and GDP was just 1.5% below its pre
234
daughter
uncontrolled
fits
Plan, which will send a total


“But for people who have lost someone, certain things will just never be normal.
235
experts
Omicron


While the federal government works to ramp up testing, people are trying to figure out when to test before holiday gatherings
236
China’s health authority reported 77 new confirmed cases on Tuesday, down from 81 a day earlier.
Omicron


Indonesia has recorded 4,829 cases and 11 deaths
237
bookings
Technical Advisory Group
against variants,


“Taken together, these different scenarios help governments aim for the best but plan
238
The chancellor’s Omicron
sector is worth £1bn, enough
Kate Nicholls, chief executive of UKHospitality, called it a “generous package”.
scheme
investment
239
Fema) working to expand medical capacity.
”

Federal health officials said on Monday that Omicron has raced ahead of other variants and is now the dominant
240
De Blasio
”

The Omicron variant is spreading rapidly.


Many are looking for tests, help with mild or moderate symptoms, or monoclonal antibody treatment.
241
The measures announced by the Treasury on Tuesday are intended to compensate for the loss of earnings that businesses are already suffering.
242
It works on every Apple device, including the Mac or an Apple TV streaming box so you can watch the movie on the big screen.
PlayStation
Plus.
243
”

According to the CDC, 72.9% of the eligible US population has taken at least one shot and 61.5% are considered “fully vaccinated” with two.
244
vaccine


“We got a vaccine done,” he said, telling supporters that wariness of the vaccine was “playing into the hands” of his opponents.
—
245
fold increase in Omicron’s share of infections in only one week.
, Omicron’s prevalence is even higher.


“All of us have a date with Omicron
246
UK
—
All members of staff identified are now self-isolating.
Wellcome
—
,
”

She said the closures are likely to have hit museum’s finances.
247
Elizabeth Warren and


Her office did not respond to an email seeking comment.
I’m beyond grateful to have received two doses of vaccine and, more recently, a booster
248
Westbrook
But
on Sunday, the league added significantly to the list of postponements, with teams simply not having enough players to compete.
249
Whole households should cancel
index
on to others in their households, with a transmission rate three times higher than that seen with Delta.
250
“…
Omicron


“The big


The research by Discovery Health, the country’s largest medical insurance administrator, calculated a 70%
protection
251
-home tests remained
he said, “We’re seeing a lot more treat-and
has seen a small uptick in patients with Covid, now about 80 in its several
hospitals
Northwell
252
Boris Johnson has promised to recall parliament if he judges that tougher regulations are needed over Christmas
Trevor Phillips
controls
253
administration
was blind



And most people who believe in the efficacy of the vaccine and the seriousness of the virus have been vaccinated.
254
misinformation about


Last month, Kennedy released a book in which he attacks targets including Joe Biden’s chief medical adviser.
Gawker
.
255
On high streets, cheaper rents are starting to attract independent stores.


Being home 24/7 has also resulted in acceleration of the shift to online shopping.
online sales
Retail
Consortium data shows the number of empty stores sitting at a record high of 14.5%.


“The cost of selling something in a shop is now much more expensive because you’ve got
256
Last year, de Blasio’s government allowed restaurants to use propane heaters, a cheaper and more efficient outdoor heating
The walk
Gonzalez
257
Very likely that it continues


His point is illustrated by the bottleneck of giant containers that has built up off the west coast of the US.
258
Much remains unknown about Omicron, but authorities are concerned it may be more transmissible than the Delta variant, which has already put pressure on hospitals worldwide.
259
examinations are both tools that Osha historically employed to contain illness in the workplace,” she wrote.


The vaccine requirement would
260
But the plans were plunged into doubt after a series of sources alleged a Christmas event for staff took place in Case’s office on 17 December, the day before the supposed Downing Street party.
261
Meanwhile, approximately 60% of Republican adults have received their first shot, according to data research by the New York Times.
counties
262
coffee
”

The organisation takes good
fresh



.
The Scottish first minister once again called on the UK government to provide support
cause
263
Antibodies are always a good starting point for trying to see if a vaccine works because what the antibodies do is block the pathogen getting into the cell in the first place.
264
Lyft’s offices will open in February, but workers can stay remote for the entirety of next year – one of the longest delayed returns, partly due
265
June
.
I


She is now struggling financially, having relied on her husband’s income, and angry that he did not get vaccinated for Covid-19.
266
The global gas supply crunch, which has caused record
-high prices worldwide, has also helped reignite demand for coal,
Glasgow climate pact
267
surveillance across the country, she said.
filtration is also important
”

But the evidence available does indicate the variant is more transmissible and immune
268
The question in January is how many redundancies will have to be made.
excluded
Philippa Childs, head of Bectu, said: “This started as a public health crisis but it could
269
Steve Brine, a former health minister, said that “at a stroke, the chief medical officer changed government policy” at Wednesday’s press conference, and argued: “
270
The company’s acquisition of brands including Coast and Karen Millen, which sell higher priced dresses, has heightened the impact of those shopping patterns.
271
Housebound elderly
Local NHS and GP teams are prioritising
and


The failure to give the green light to more pharmacies to become vaccination
272
Australia’s jobless rate plunged
-Covid pandemic levels, the ABS said.


He also noted most of the gains were in part-time employment, with 237,800
273
The two vaccine specialists announced positive


The booster trial is under way in countries including the US, France and the UK, and the jab is being tested on new variants including Omicron.
274
Adar Poonawalla are donating
that will house the team who developed the AstraZeneca
The new centre on the university’s Old Road campus will be named the Poonawalla Vaccines Research building.
Adrian Hill
,
We
At $113m it was the most expensive Indian home ever sold when they bought in 2015.
275
The chief executive, Sundar Pichai, told staff in a memo in July that the policy would initially be implemented in the US before being adopted globally.
276
The figure represents the highest reported toll of any country in the world, and is likely even higher.


The number of Covid deaths
Hopkins
277
An attorney for Cuomo immediately called the action unconstitutional and promised a fight.


A separate state assembly investigation released last month found evidence that Cuomo,
278
that 42 players and club officials had tested positive


It is accepted that with wider society not in lockdown, the players face greater risks with regard
279
The suggestion was made by the vaccine
Omicron
new cases a day, while in the Eastern Cape the Covid-19 positivity rate had increased to 17.8%.
280
Labour MPs


“Several MPs have tested positive for Covid in the last few days so there’s a very high probability that others are carrying the virus but have not yet shown symptoms or given a positive test.
281
infections
The prime minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, warned of a serious situation.


However, officials in France, where there also signs that the pace of a rapid recent surge may be starting to slow, have warned Omicron
system, said
France


Experts have said Denmark’s advanced sequencing capacity
282
to counter the dramatic rise of the Omicron variant, but the government has not ruled out new restrictions for England.
Tory
gatherings over Christmas
283
vaccine, making them what officials believe are the first service members to be removed for disobeying the mandate.
Defense


According to the latest air
284
Virgin



Red list travel restrictions
variant in the UK, and provide bespoke economic support for the sector to help it through the crisis.
285
network – were


Following the measures announced last week by Boris
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

The reduction in passengers will further hit
s
286
to neutralise Omicron is 30 times lower than if you were infected with the Delta variant – reinforcing
infection
– similar to when people start to become infectious.
287
–
Family
CDC director Rochelle
Walensky
last week


“The greatest threat to employment is that Omicron and the cold winter months are going
288
“In spite of these problems, booster vaccinations and better weather in the spring are likely to have a positive impact [on Wetherspoons’ trading] in the coming months.
289
Amid the Covid-19
run non-profits has warned that health and economic disparities are still seriously affecting Indigenous communities, despite some
290
Social care is a massive, massive concern;
”

Our staff are resolute and they’re still delivering absolutely fantastic care.
Denis Campbell
291
”

Kyanna Parsons-Perez, who was also on shift at the Kentucky candle factory, told the Guardian while sitting in the hospital, how a gust of wind suddenly changed everything.
292
while others will wait until later in the month.


Austrian officials have stressed that high rates of vaccination are necessary to control the virus.
293
“The ability to escape anywhere is very attractive in the current climate.
Beatriz Barros, he found that the average billionaire had a carbon footprint
294
Ministers announced a huge expansion of the booster vaccine campaign
questioned on Saturday by senior behavioural experts
”

An NHS spokesperson said: “NHS sites are
295
confinement since last month ends on Sunday for the vaccinated, but those who have not received the required doses will have to remain at home.
She said she was vaccinated, but did not want to give her surname.
296
The spinout from the University of Nottingham, now based in Oxford, is testing two vaccine


The vaccines
vaccines
Singaporean venture capital
297
, a team of researchers in California announced they had found traces of the variant in sewage treatment
“We definitely are seeing Omicron across the state,” she added.
298
”

He added: “Since then what we’ve seen is occasional rises, occasional falls, partly coincident with relaxing measures, a lot with school holidays, and a lot with vaccine rollout.
299
Health officials in Taiwan are investigating whether a mouse bite may have been responsible
s first local infection in weeks.
bio-safety
domestic
300
travellers concerned about being trapped overseas because of pre


Heathrow said the drop in traveller confidence owing to the new travel restrictions had negated
301
Governor
The vaccine mandates expose larger societal rifts, Martin said.
health, “need to begin the exercise of restoring trust”, Martin said.
302
LG
The system has reportedly reduced loneliness among users, and even been credited with saving lives by the country’s president.
Irene Kim.
Choi
303
”

Some employers have been forced to retreat from tentative steps made to increase the number of staff working in the office before the Omicron variant was identified.
UK
304
The Omicron variant was first identified in South Africa last month and has since been reported in 57 countries, according to the World Health Organization.
305
has said as it appeared to shrug off the fresh uncertainty facing the aviation industry as a result of the Omicron variant.
governments
engines
306
BBC


While some companies had postponed their celebrations until the new year when there may be more certainty
Inflation is running at 5%.
307
Cleveland Clinic and University Hospitals announced last week that the surge has forced them


Gounder also suggested that people take rapid Covid tests before holiday gatherings.
308
“All studies show less immunity against Omicron than against the original virus strain, however the reported drops vary widely,” she said.
309
At the cabinet meeting just 24 hours earlier on Tuesday, no decision was taken on imposing more restrictions.
Just three cabinet ministers
310
Two Premier League teams


Organisers have been aware of the possibility of vaccine passports for some months, with the addition of negative lateral
311
The oil, gas and metals merchant Trafigura will reward its top traders and executives with financial rewards worth more than $1bn after making record
312
It pains me to say, but
After 18 months of a new scandal every week, culminating in them literally laughing at us, I’m done.
was just at home, not having a Christmas party.
313
“There were 15 of us,” he said on Wednesday.
What’s the difference?
”She felt “disbelief
The fact that I didn’t see her and she died on her own.
314
Private companies offering day two tests for travellers are listed on a government website for consumers to search.
misleading online advertisements
315
Tui markets”.


The company said it had 4.1m bookings for its next winter and summer seasons, 1.4m received since 3 October.
decisions
Today
316
“Staffing is a real issue in hospitality
due to staffing shortages


“Some venues are having to decrease their operating hours and days simply because they don’t have the staffing capabilities.
317
As people shunned city centre


In November, flats were changing hands for 10.8% more than at the same time last year, while detached houses were typically fetching 6.6% more.
318
According to NPR,


The study only examined the geographic


Republicans have been found to be more likely to believe misinformation about Covid and vaccines.
319
worrisome Omicron variant is gaining a toehold in New York and elsewhere.
In addition, proof of at least one shot will be required of children aged five to 11, de Blasio said.
320
Parent company the Fulham Shore reported a doubling of revenues and a return to profit in the six months to 26 September, with many of its 75 restaurants “continuing
321
The controversy, he added, was primarily “of interest in the media”.
Labour MPs have reported the alleged gathering at No 10 to the Metropolitan police.
322
While there is a shortage of mental health professionals in the United States, Dunkle said focusing on the number of providers at a counseling center should just be one consideration.
323
Household spending would remain the key driver of the economy, the employers’ organisation said, generating 90% of growth in 2022, and two-thirds of gross
324
“The vaccines that we are distributing now in the United States and throughout the world are directed against the original ancestral Wuhan strain,” he said.
Administration
325
Bill Galston, a senior fellow at former policy adviser to Bill Clinton, awards Biden a more generous eight of out of 10 for his coronavirus approach to date.
326
York announced three more cases of the Omicron


Fifteen members of the national guard arrived at Monroe community hospital


New York’s Omicron
327
Five of its London outlets are being temporarily closed


Nørøxe says the company is offering perks including international travel, yoga nights, and “showoff” competitions
328
But at the same time, I think it is a shame
have almost come to accept that he will get ill and die, before it’s happened.
He won’t even wear a mask.
Even though
329
The personal risk analysis that was once the hallmark of good clinical care is now strongly discouraged by the Robert Koch Institute [
essentials
330
Omicron


“Having an executive branch take all of that authority and power away from them is just not going to be a good move


At a press conference this week defending the new laws, the governor was asked about the Omicron variant, and lashed out a familiar target: what he sees as “corporate media” controlling the conversation around Covid-19.


“In Florida, we will not let them lock you down,” he said.
331
you get to learn a bit more about how Omicron might effect the economy,” he said.
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

“[That would] mean subsequently tightening
332
”

In the case of coronavirus, there is also an obvious hole in the argument:
and
which they hope will be less sensitive to future mutations of the spike protein.
333
The US economy added 210,000 jobs in November, less than half the jobs growth that economists had expected, in a report that was compiled before the discovery of the Omicron
334
a forthcoming rule requiring private insurance to reimburse


The new plan calls for private insurers to begin reimbursing people for at
Covid
335
Officials reported another


Hochul said the case involving the Minnesota visitor underlined the need for everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated or receive a booster shot if they have not already.
336
Anthony Fauci, chief medical adviser to Biden on Covid-19, told reporters at the White House on Wednesday that boosting was “very important”, particularly when considering the rise in antibodies following
337
She said: “We believe the number of cases will increase exponentially in all provinces of the country.
Vaccines


On Tuesday,
Salim
infections
338
After the prime minister said people should not cancel nativity plays or Christmas parties and focus on getting booster jabs and wearing masks instead, four people
339
,
the advice of leading scientists and one of his most senior health officials, who advised people to cut back on unnecessary socialising
I
340
that screens themselves are damaging
And frequent handwashing
”

The term “maskne” has been jovially mooted during the pandemic – referring
341
events


At the time of the 18
series of responses at a media briefing, repeatedly refusing to explain why No 10 said it did not recognise
.
342
infections, according to the World Health Organization.
In Fresno county late last month, hospitals were “consistently above 100% of capacity”, forcing
343
“CDC is working to modify the current Global Testing Order for travel as we learn more about the Omicron variant;
and
Mexico
.


With Omicron
344
“One is where it creates more supply
It added that the failure to ensure rapid and effective vaccination around the world was proving


Although warning that the new variant could lead
345
EU


“One-third of the European population is not vaccinated … not each and every one can be vaccinated
”

There is growing momentum behind mandatory vaccination among the EU member states.
346
Marcus Lamb, the co-founder of the leading Christian TV network
Lamb’s son Jonathan said that his father’s illness was due to sinister outside forces.
347
The scientists noted that firm data was not yet available but early analysis of the variant provided “sufficiently worrying signals” for them to recommend “early and robust actions to prevent introduction and onward transmission”.
348
However, differences in testing mean the number of cases may be understated


At the same time, dozens of countries have recorded over 10,000 deaths.
with advanced vaccination
349
Missouri is contemplating similar laws, while states like Maryland are considering “mitigating factors” around unemployment and vaccine rules.
350
Downing
by Omicron
categorically say that the NHS and the wider health service are already overwhelmed.


“As it stands, hospitalisations owing
351
“Somewhat ironically, considering his circumstances”, Meadows writes, Trump spoke about a new testing strategy “supposed to give quicker, more accurate readings about whether
352
-honoured tradition of drinking, eating, and drinking some more with groups of colleagues, even as the country begins
described
But I guess
353
disease
”

Israel’s health minister expressed cautious optimism.
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

The Moderna comments fuelled further falls in share prices around the world, adding to Friday’s sell-off.
354
On Monday, Biden said Americans should be concerned but should not panic.
Josef Mengele earned his nickname by performing deadly and inhumane medical experiments
355
The monk urged followers to disobey the government’s lockdown measures.


The Russian Orthodox Church stripped Sergiy of his abbot’s rank for breaking
356
He also used government money to buy a Ford


According to officials, more than $75m has been seized back from fraudulent PPP claims.
pizza
357
The outgoing finance minister proposed a general vaccine mandate coming into effect from the end of February, by which everyone should have had a theoretical chance to receive two doses of vaccine of their own accord.
358
News of new Covid variants, and the potential for further travel restrictions, makes it incredibly difficult to predict trading patterns from here.
359
“If you lose Christmas and new year it would cost millions and mean you would not have the cash to see you through the sparse trade
“Slow queues in freezing conditions are not conducive to great trade.
360
The change from the pre
”

The new word of the year, released as the world reacts to the discovery of the Omicron variant in southern
cows
,
361
Police officers
that spawned a national crisis,


Since late January, protesters in trucks, tractors and motor
protests around the country
I
362
NSW
APNA has been working with universities and tertiary
Initiative” in December, a pilot program aimed at connecting students undertaking a Certificate III in Individual
363
The finance department advised that McCormack’s inclusion in the material was “problematic” and it could not support the proposal, which resulted in the pre
364
urged the government to follow Victoria’s lead, given the number of students still testing positive.


“They are frontline staff and should not be burdened with
365
It is also completely irresponsible


“Ministers must explain how employers are supposed to ensure campuses
They must also commit to not abandoning free PCR testing
366
Covid
jabs for young children after it was suggested they are unlikely to be offered as part of school vaccination programmes in England.
,
367
However, the lifting of the indoor mask mandate remains another week away.
However, masks will still be required until 25 February.
state’s premier, Daniel Andrews, telling reporters he expected further restrictions would be eased next week.
NSW


“While we don’t want anyone to get Covid-19, what is doing is making sure that those people aren’t either at work or school,” she said.
368
The ABS “indexes of socioeconomic
has previously reported that Covid outbreaks have repeatedly and disproportionately hit more disadvantaged groups.
369
The main purpose of offering
However, the experts emphasised that the move should not be prioritised over
programmes
concerns over
motivation
370
Immunisation
olds
.
Loretta Maddox


In this context it’s difficult to understand what the impetus is for focusing energies on healthy children.
371
Experts note that the pace of this rollout is slower than that of the adult vaccination programme, with an average of about 3,000 children a day being jabbed over the past week.
372
Discussions


“This draft advice does not affect children
Sturgeon will publish the Scottish long-term plan on 22 February.
the
mask
wearing
373
to “avoid strict measures and lockdowns”, it called on Johnson to “chart a sensible path between the extremes of lockdowns and letting the virus rip”.
374
Northern Territory
”

But RSPCA Australia senior scientific officer, Dr Sarah Zito, does not advise pet owners use RATs on their animals.
animals
375
Labor of “bullying” him in a fiery Senate estimates hearing.


The estimates committee later heard that just 106 ADF staff had so far been deployed, into 21 facilities.
376
Office “would not expect the Met to publish photographs”.
restrictions were in force.


He told journalists: “We’re going to wait for the process to be completed.
377
The JCVI advised all four nations more than
programme
But as the Guardian has reported, the UK government delayed announcing
olds.
I
olds.
378
The findings of the new analysis are striking, researchers say, and suggest the true toll of the pandemic has been even deadlier in poorer areas than initially thought.
379
Thousands of people infected with Covid-19 are on a waiting list for isolation rooms, with another 5,400 preliminary positive cases reported
380
The first prime minister
“We are not preventing the right of people to protest legally,” he said, adding that the military would not be deployed.
locations
evoked the dug-in mentality of the convoy.





But a press conference, organisers of the convoy said protesters would remain until mandates were removed.
381
However, the government’s public
experts are concerned that
Officials
, finalisation of the plan on Friday and a Covid-O meeting on Sunday.
382
help infection rates, but the prime minister’s decision to jettison sensible isolation rules next week could make everything significantly worse.
383
Hundreds of protesters had headed north from Paris region on Sunday but Brussels authorities said the convoy would not be allowed to enter the city.
384
with children and renters are more likely to have seen their spending on utility bills increase while working from home during the coronavirus pandemic, official figures suggest.
Statistics
385
”

The easing of New Zealand’s border rules means Smith’s family will finally be able
”

She decided to book her flights before Queensland officially announced the changes.
386
The AA said petrol surpassed 148p a litre on Sunday, rising above
, said: “These record high fuel prices will be worrying for many households across the country.
387
Austria’s chancellor, Karl Nehammer, said on Sunday that his government could scrap the law if its expert advisory committee decided the measure was no longer appropriate.
388
That effort is being backed by Freedom
nature of the impending protest makes it difficult to determine how many people
The FBI
participants
389
on Thursday disclosing Prince Charles, 73, had tested positive for the virus.


It was the second time Charles had tested positive, but this is the first time for the duchess.
390
infections
Last week, public gatherings were restricted to a maximum of two people, while many businesses and public areas have been ordered to close.
391
According to officials, the department intended to use accommodation at the Australian National University for quarantine


After he was contacted
392
present].”

The prime minister was questioned on how New Zealanders were dealing with the rapid rise in cases – and the mindset shift required after years dedicated to stamping every
393
She added: “When it comes to platforms, it’s quite clear that there needs to be more proactivity to take measures to counter the spread of this type of content
394
Jacob Barker (@JacobBarkerCBC) February 13, 2022

Police on Saturday had persuaded demonstrators to move their pickup trucks and others cars that they used at the entrance to the crossing that sees 25% of all trade between the two countries, though it remained closed.
395
“The IRC has placed orders and directions against us late [Monday] afternoon,” the statement read.


“The demands that the nurses are making are very reasonable,” he said.
Dominic
396
The CIPD reported that more than two
Salaries for jobs in hospitality
– although others say that pay rises are long overdue in many countries.
397
In February 2021 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and had a mastectomy.
On Wednesday they went for lunch at a football club, on Thursday they had a mystery picnic.
398
The ANU study concluded that it was “always going to be necessary to open the country and ease restrictions that have been some of the most draconian
399
Among the protesters’ grievances is the requirement in New Zealand that certain workers get vaccinated against Covid-19, including teachers, doctors, nurses, police and military personnel.
400
Vulnerable
Australians
Australians


The groups argue the government should follow the UK and US in providing free kits for the entire community.
401
letter to family, community, real ale and Britain’s forgotten rural traditions”.
When it was faced with closure, the community clubbed together and bought the pub,” she said.
402
Schools have reported tutoring companies cancelling
Audit
website
”

He said: “It all needs to be made simple and easy for schools to access.
403
Morrison insisted
in Queensland


“We haven’t actually made a decision on when [further restrictions] will come in, but at some point in time they will come in,” McGowan said on Sunday.
404
Police issued a statement on Saturday calling the protest an unlawful
The government does the right thing, and the protesters are all happy.
405
After a meeting with mainland Chinese officials across
down from 99 cases a day earlier, the country’s national health authority said on Sunday.
406
demonstrations in Canada
Horseback police dispersed a group of people and dealt blows...,” it reported.


Police have allowed two street marches by anti-vaccine and
407
“People seem to think there has been a linear evolution of the virus from Alpha to Beta to Delta to Omicron,” he told the Observer.
unnecessarily
408
chain


ARA members report that they are ending up with either not enough stock or stock arriving at the wrong time
shipping
companies
businesses
409
50 people
,
”

“We had 50% of our staff furloughed on one day, and then to 25% on most days during that first couple of weeks of spread.
762
410
A tense standoff at a US



police immediately warned


While the Canadian protesters are decrying vaccine mandates for truckers and other Covid-19
411
“Employers are working hard to keep staff happy,” says Jon Boys, labour market economist at the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
412
Fully vaccinated
Britons will no longer be required
to undergo Covid


The move follows Spain easing its travel rules for British passengers aged 12 to 17.
413
Medical Products


While a number of vaccines are available worldwide to help prevent infection and serious illness, including one made by Pfizer, there are limited treatment options for people infected with Covid-19.
414
“Education is important but health should be the priority,” says Coombs.
Parents who are home schooling because of Covid say schools are not giving them any work in case they are seen
415
, which said Power was highly unlikely to have brought Covid back to WA.


“Hindsight’s a wonderful thing,” replied magistrate Elizabeth Woods.
416
In advice to government this week, Sage scientists said removing access to free testing would make it harder for people to take precautionary actions and increase anxiety among clinically vulnerable groups.
417
”

There is a push in the flower industry for original labelling to be introduced on products to give consumers greater awareness of where their product has originated.
418
Over the last two years researchers have gained a clearer picture of what
-Aly says, citing a lack of funding for research into other post-viral
419
Cartoon characters
But it’s escalating to a point where there is real concern, given the types of threats that are being made,” Sherman says.
420
Last week the department revealed that PPE worth £750m was never deployed because it had passed its safe use-by date.
PPE
on Corruption.


The DHSC
421
Despite the disruption, the EU remains the UK’s largest trading partner.
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

“There is a lot more friction on trade, which you would expect to have a more medium
422
“Allowing the virus a free run would be a fundamental error,” he said.
“Vaccination, including boosters, is still key.
”

He said lifting restrictions
423
Prior to travelling to Spain, all passengers must also present a QR code which is obtained from filling in the Health Control Form (FCS in Spanish) available via Spain Travel Health (SpTH).
424
Happily for Eurostar, the start of the half-term getaway brought the return of queues of passengers snaking up along the shopfronts, heading to Paris and Amsterdam.
425
GP: ‘My main concerns are for the medically vulnerable’

My particular concern is the suggestion that people will no longer have to isolate if testing positive for Covid, for which I haven’t seen any clear arguments or evidence given.
426
on Thursday, waved off by a crowd wearing the high-visibility vests that defined the gilets jaunes demonstrations.


The police deployment will include rapid
427
The drop in GDP triggered by Omicron in December also meant that the UK economy remained smaller than before the pandemic, unlike the US, China and the eurozone.
428
The airport said travel was down 56% in January compared with 2019 levels, a worse start to the year than it had forecast, as the hangover from the Omicron variant affected traveller confidence.
429
protesters
to break up the protest has exposed Trudeau to criticism from all other party leaders.
that will change the conversation,” he said.
430
But he said the warning was ignored.
”

But appearing before the committee both Hazzard and the health secretary, Elizabeth Koff, said they could not recall being given that advice prior to lifting restrictions, with the minister saying
431
government would
events and venues
The legal requirement to wear face coverings in all remaining settings could be lifted by the end of March.
432
McKell
in the dark about when this will occur.
centre
residents
.
Australians


“This advice is being issued by health units that have no idea
433
the announcement following a summit with pig producers on Thursday to discuss ways to solve the continuing crisis in domestic pig production.
434
BBC
have argued that Sturgeon’s government needs to lift its restrictions sooner, to help
Scotland’s chief medical officer, Prof Sir Gregor Smith, had retweeted
435
“Because of the risk to public order, these protests will be banned from 11 to 14 February,” it said, adding the penalties for blocking public roads included two years in prison, a fine of €4,500 and a three-year driving ban.
436
Asian
”

In March 2020, Charles lost his sense of taste and smell after contracting Covid, but suffered overall from a mild form of the virus.
437
Australians
on Immunisation’s new guidance states a third dose is required


National cabinet also resolved that the Department of Health would lead a “winter preparedness
438
You can’t just grab another bottle, it’s not how it works,”
Shipments


Businesses have been warning for some time of the impact of the surging cost of moving goods.
439
HIV
He said, though people may be daunted taking a test for fear of a positive result, “it wouldn’t be scary if you understood what living with HIV in 2022 is”.
440
Thursday afternoon


Speaking to media in a location away from the protest, Parnell said the occupation, with its erected
Parliamentary
protesters
441
”

“There can be no doubt that the minister’s resignation today has everything to do with the criticism she rightfully received for being absent with the risk of Covid returning to schools.
442
salons and religious venues
barber.
80% of the city’s residents have had at least one vaccine shot but many elderly people have been hesitant.
443
-isolation a matter of choice would “inevitably” mean this would happen much more often among people who could either work from home or afford to take time off, Reicher added.
444
associations warned that manufacturers in the region risk losing $50m a day because of delays.


Volpe described the blockade as a “brain dead move”.
445
that someone with flu, we wouldn’t recommend they go to work, we would never recommend anyone goes to work when they have an infectious disease”.
446
penalties
and
fines.
isolation


The UK recently cut the minimum time people
Covid


The change in England will be a technical legal issue.
447
Jacques, 26, recruitment consultant, London

‘Millions of people are at huge risk – are their lives expendable?
That will give rise to further infections
448
Price has written to the department of health saying that the 12-month rule is affecting immunocompromised GPs and patients in particular.
449
to those who are at the highest clinical need,” Kidd said.


“These medicines were trialled before the vaccine was widely distributed,” Griffin said.
450
You will still be expected to isolate, rather than struggle into work, coughing over
It is not known if this will stay in place with the voluntary regime.
451
the importance of following the letter and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront about what happened and to apologise for the mistake I made.
452
The spy agency
said on Wednesday the pandemic had sent online radicalisation “into overdrive” and he noted a “deeply distressing” trend of children
453
Tasmania president, David Genford, said the state government had failed to address safety measures ahead of schools returning this year.
Covid
454
and
.


And while consensus
among the protest group is looking shaky
Parliament.


“I think there’s a range of protests out there, it’s very confusing
455
But the tough methods have also drawn extensive complaints for frequent changes to unnecessarily


Despite rising public anger, Lam is sticking
456
Sign up to receive an email with the top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

While different union branches have voted for different actions, some of Sydney’s major hospitals have voted for extended
457
“If the government steps away, not only will it undermine
However, he said he recognised the “genuine pressures” facing the industry, adding: “The government’s failure so far to extend Covid
458
Before the pandemic, airlines operated about 2,000 flights to Australia a week, with 840,000
Transport
quarantine for unvaccinated arrivals, noting
459
anticipated


“I would have had to go back to Timor


“It’s now been three years since my partner has seen her family back in Colombia and I’ve yet to meet them for the first time,” Hiscox said.
460
and Greece have each updated their entry requirements for fully vaccinated travellers, with changes coming into effect in time for half-term.
461
Tui has said UK customers’ holiday bookings this summer are nearly a fifth higher than before the pandemic, with a rise in long
German bookings
462
workers in aged care
Defence


“During our recent outbreak I requested isolation gowns and N95 masks from the national stockpile,” Jane said.
463
reopen Australia’s border but warned travellers may need a third Covid-19 vaccine dose in order to move freely about the state.


The
ever
464
”

Covid-19 minister Chris Hipkins said over the weekend that rising


While the vast majority of the country is vaccinated, some New Zealanders continue to object
465
According to Russell, only 668 of 2,704 private aged care homes had received RATs by 7 January.
11 times the number of deaths in care
”

35,000 people
466
in schools


Others had apparently misunderstood the role of online lessons.
”

Ofsted said some absences were linked to families who feel they have not had a holiday
467
”

The state of emergency gives the city additional powers around procurement and how it delivers services, which could help it purchase equipment required
468
“If you have cases in the community and don’t realise it, and you didn’t switch to the zero phase, then it’s going to be worse off,” he said last week.
469
planned to join the anti-mandate protesters
Australia he hoped to speak at a rally this week, and planned to sign “a small group” of protesters in to parliament
470
Quick Response
They’re skilled jobs and they can’t be done by just anyone just walking off the street”.


“There’s not enough staff to provide even basic levels of care now.
471
Australia
and
the
top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

The tourism industry was quick to welcome the news.
Council of Australia
472
Transport
Well, just don’t say anything … Meanwhile, we are watching more of our friends leave because the territory has changed.
Washington
473
In a major economic speech to the Australian Industry Group on Monday, the treasurer will also announce that he has tasked the Productivity Commission with undertaking another five


In attempt to recast the political narrative to the government’s economic management in the final
Productivity


The inquiry will undertake a public
474
”

The EU had been trying to develop a common approach between the 27 member states, he said, but they had taken different approaches.
Now British nationals will be part of that queue.
475
As people
14


There were 7,169 new infections in Victoria and six deaths, while Queensland recorded 5,746 and nine deaths.
blown
in aged care
476
“They know they’re not meant to be accessing emergency departments to get their blood pressure medication
Jenny
cards
multiply
local nurse
”
477
Two people were aged in their 60s, four in their 70s, 11 in their 80s and four in their 90s.
He said anyone who had not received their third vaccination should get immediately.
– bringing the total number of cases announced on Saturday to 1,141.
-related death and 372 new cases.


Tasmania recorded 483 new Covid-19 cases overnight.
478
But
”

And Labor demanded that the federal government “clarify” what it would do to fix chronic staff shortages, which have left some elderly
479
That means Hayter’s daughter is not allowed to travel to Australia without an exemption.
.
.


The supporting statement has done nothing
”
480
”

Couldn’t find their father in his room

Amid growing unrest among staff, the prime minister, Scott Morrison, announced on Monday that aged care workers would receive two pre-election bonus payments worth up to $800.
481
The prime minister declared the coming election was not a referendum on the government’s performance.
.
-match unhinging –
Liberals
Morrison
482
Police in Canada have promised tougher action


“The surge [of officers]
Police
efforts to end the demonstration safely,” he said, adding that
483
and
JCVI
“Children are at extremely low risk of severe disease and many of them will be asymptomatic or only have mild symptoms.
vaccinations
484
to impact military calculations over Russia’s continued troop buildup.
means large numbers of troops


He added that basic military doctrine suggested the Russians would need
485
Police in Ottawa recently warned they might have to call in the military to disband
“There are examples in Canada where the far right came out in droves.
486
“The problem is that vaccine coverage is patterned by inequality,


“It’s an avoidable problem that people have been talking about since the pandemic started
487
a main site, but warn that protesters could be in town at least a week.
In makeshift campgrounds
ACT Policing (@ACTPolicing) February 2, 2022

“Police expect
488
”

He said the best thing the government could do was “provide those nurses and those additional shifts to be covered where people are sick”.
489
”

But the secretary of the Health Services Union, Gerard Hayes, told the Guardian he had lobbied the government not to push ahead with a third
490
Western


A federal emergency meeting was discussing the use of defence ships and aircraft to transport products into the state, Saffioti said.
491
reached out to them
of those caring responsibilities, or lost work,” she said.
“We’ve got a whole generation of women who are feeling incredibly anxious about their futures,” she said.
492
Saffron Cordery, of the hospitals group NHS Providers, said the high number of delayed handovers showed that “safety risk is being borne increasingly by ambulance
493
The Covid-19 vaccine developed by Novavax has been approved by the UK regulator for use in people over the age of 18.
A recent study
by Novavax
494
£
m
The company continued to make furlough claims into 2021, receiving a further £25,000 to £70,000 between January and March.
NHS
PPE
Audit
495
“With our community better protected we must turn to the importance
-isolation will enable more people to return home.
Michael Plank
Visa
496
“Without hesitation, I condemn those actions and I call for calm amongst anybody who feels sympathetic to those engaged in this blockade,” said Kenney.
497
Outlets including Der Spiegel and the BBC, have reported discrepancies in the serial numbers of the tests Serbian authorities administered to Djokovic ahead of his trip to Australia, suggesting possible
498
.
I
t
going
”

The report says the sector had been advised that the idea of using the military for support “has been explored as an option
.
499
In Victoria and New South Wales
”

Under South Australia’s guidelines, close
-stay” approach or surveillance testing could limit outbreaks in schools.
500
Ventilation audits in schools across
no carbon dioxide monitoring, Morawska said the plan for classroom ventilation remained unclear regardless
501
and made 28 applications for an inbound travel exemption


But the waiting times for AAT decisions have ballooned during the pandemic, leaving him stuck
502
”

A quarantine period of 10 days is also still required after emergency hospital stays, which is discriminatory and deeply damaging to older people’s wellbeing according to Helen Wildbore, director of the Residents and
503
Colbeck said the sector was performing “extremely well” despite the Omicron outbreak.


Frewen said the Indigenous vaccination gap had closed by 12%:
504
both supported state governments that postponed elective surgeries


The AMA president, Dr Omar Khorshid, said blanket
participation in cancer screenings
505
School goes back next week, we are expecting to see increased numbers of cases.


The Northern Territory is yet to release their daily figures.
506
”

“Our transport operators are prepared for wet roads and airstrips.
”

Paterson said he thought military support would be able to navigate
507
Ali said parents needed to be assured that adding a vaccine on top of natural infection provided an even greater level of protection for their children.
508
the protesters
.
weekend
Alberta border town for days, after dozens of trucks blocked access to the highway in protest of public health policies.
509
”

The government’s original rapid response plan said it was “identified as being necessary given the congregate living arrangements and co-morbidities
510
hold
NSW
“In brief, we do not know as the numbers of people in that setting are on the low side and it will take a while to study in cohorts
511
”

The spokesperson said this processing time was “well short of the timeframe the public are encouraged to renew their passport”
cases
80,000
512
£9bn
usable
Audit


Gareth Davies, the NAO’s comptroller and auditor general, also noted that PPE procurement had been vulnerable


The NAO
513
In answer to Tingle, Morrison admitted being too optimistic about the summer and said he wished he’d sent in the military to fix the vaccination rollout sooner.
514
The girls suffered what


Price said a nearby practice which hadn’t offered Covid-19 vaccines to children had also received death threats.
Queensland
515
A pregnant New Zealand journalist who was stranded in Afghanistan after failing
She said she had since been attempting unsuccessfully to secure an emergency MIQ to give birth in New Zealand.
516
with most facilities indicating that the cases have been milder at this stage.
In August, the prime minister, Scott Morrison, responding to the aged care crisis exacerbated by Covid, said: “
517
”

The new approach means that reinfections


“We have always known that the daily number of reported cases was a substantial undercount of the actual number of infections
518
Sir David Nicholson, the chief executive of the NHS in England until 2014, summed up the frustration of many health service bosses about the 11th
519
Justin Trudeau has said that Canadians were disgusted by the behaviour of anti-vaccine protesters, and said he would not be intimidated by those who hurled abuse.
520
In March 2021, an international survey of epidemiologists found that 88% said persistent low vaccination rates in many countries would make it more likely for vaccine
521
The survey reported 33% had accessed RATs from mass testing sites
Labor
On Sunday, Albanese said the tests would be “available on the basis of need”.
522
Administration



unapproved
Association


According to the department’s website, RAT kits do not need an import permit if they are approved
523
The health minister, Greg Hunt, played down the number of homes yet to be offered booster shots.
”

“We have one of the lowest rates of loss of life in aged care.
524
It was later reported that the event was in honour of Hannah Young
506 deaths that day CCHQ Christmas party for Shaun Bailey A picture
The Telegraph reported that
525
forced
tightened epidemic control measures following the
pollution during
Fourth
-quarter growth figures for the UK have yet to be released.
526
isolation
visit.
“Life is finite: many residents, including my mum, are running out of the time they should be spending with their loved ones.
527
“85% of Australian research is rated at or above world standard, yet we continue to underperform in achieving commercialisation outcomes,” Morrison will say.
Industry involvement and engagement
528
Department of Health and Social Care said the growing evidence on the Omicron


“But the most important issue for us right now is the fact that there are so many nursing vacancies already, it makes
529
Institute chief economist, Richard Denniss, criticised Frydenberg’


It will be capped at half of what was offered during the Delta outbreak last year.
530
On 10 January, acting chief health officer Ben


However, he has no plans “at this point in time” to change current recommendations to work from home.
531
.


New Zealand’s Covid-19 response minister, Chris Hipkins, said on Monday there were places in MIQ for people with special circumstances.
532
Although visits to high streets and spending in pubs and restaurants fell
sharply in the run-up to Christmas, economic activity has increased in recent
533
lead to a spike in hospitalisations.



”

On 15 December the government announced masks would no longer be mandatory at most locations indoors, scrapped the use of QR code check-ins for low
534
was taken into custody in mid-November after a district court judge found him guilty of


An independent inquiry was ordered in October into
535
“Residents of Elcho Island can return but will need to stay once they are back.
On Sunday the NT reported 849 new virus cases and revised up Saturday’s total to 879.
536
”

In comments to the Sunday Times, expanding on the CQC’s approach, Baker said: “We fully recognise there are concerns that the introduction of mandatory vaccination rules risks exacerbating existing staff shortages.
537
the pandemic in the UK have returned to less secure work, often in gig economy roles, according to research from a leading thinktank
Ensuring
538
preliminary


“Ignoring this health advice has had major real


“However, the protection may be less effective,” the note warned.
infections
539
With major new variants detected, on average, every four months, there are concerns that persistently
rates
Lowy Institute
to deliver vaccines
540
The “new effort to combat misinformation” would roll out in the next few days, he added.
”

After removing his music, Spotify said it regretted “Neil’s decision …
541
Having


Experts have said the policy is not sustainable as cases continue to increase due to the highly transmissable Omicron strain.
Kong
542
Since mid
The introduction of the booster campaign in October 2021 increased vaccine rollout once again.
elderly people
to quickly capture deaths occurring
543
“I refuse the vaccine,” he said, calling it dangerous.


Due to security concerns, Trudeau and his family left their downtown Ottawa home, the CBC reported.
The CTA urged
544
m.

The package will provide a payment of 20% of weekly payroll costs to companies that can prove a decline in turnover of at least 40% across January.
545
The premier told Sky News he expected the number of Covid deaths
“
”

Perrottet unveiled a $
1bn


“This is to help our small business
546
Education


“When it comes to international students, the reason people
”

Hurley said the quality of education offer at Australian universities had deteriorated during the pandemic, according to domestic students.
– one that would continue to lure back students from overseas, she said.
547
by questioning Taliban
”

She said she had sent 59 documents to New Zealand authorities in Afghanistan but they rejected her application for an emergency return.
548
, a number of secondaries told parents on Friday that a rise in cases meant some year groups would have to resume wearing face coverings indoors and take daily lateral flow tests.
549
resigned over the government’s “schoolboy” handling of fraudulent Covid business
He called the oversight of the scheme “nothing less than woeful”.
550
.
Most countries now require a vaccination
arrival.
PCR


It is expected that more countries will relax rules in the coming weeks and months
551
Test
In line with Ministry of Health advice she will be tested immediately tomorrow and will isolate until Tuesday,” her office said.
,
552
A couple heading off on holiday to Madeira were refused permission
spend in mainland


The passport matter revolves around
and
requirements ahead
553
British Business
”

There were rules: borrowers had to confirm they were affected by Covid and based in the UK, that they were in business as of 1 March 2020 and not insolvent as of 1 December 2019.
554
”

He said “son of Omicron” was “not a new variant”.


NSW posted 13,354 new virus cases on Saturday.


The Northern Territory recorded 828 new cases of Covid-19.
555
Requiring


If a third dose is mandated, Gordon said, it will be crucial to make it easy to get done.


“We need to motivate people to get the third dose by reminding them
556
The New South Wales and Victorian governments will provide staff and students with rapid antigen tests for twice-weekly surveillance testing for the first four weeks of term.
the direction the swab is inserted in is important.
557
thought about government plans to require vaccination for all NHS staff.
”

James told Javid: “I’ve had Covid at some point, I’ve got antibodies, and I’ve been working on Covid ITUs since the beginning;
558
“The hope is that the return to eating and drinking out will happen quicker than in previous lockdowns, when it took six to eight weeks for recovery to come through.
559
The head of hospitals in Paris has raised the question of whether


Martin Hirsch said the door to hospital treatment was open to all people
560
Earlier this month, Canada began requiring any truckers arriving from the US be fully vaccinated against


In many way, Covid-19 has exposed the necessity of the trucking
561
on companies allegedly trying to bring unapproved rapid antigen tests into Australia


Many millions of rapid tests are due
to
Administration
562
”

Morrison said 86 per cent of aged care facilities had received a visit for residents to get the booster shot, with the remainder to have theirs in the next week.
That state recorded 1846 new cases on Friday.
563
‘Not knowing how it will play out is almost as bad’

NZ just hasn’t suffered the kind of personalised trauma happening overseas, and summer makes a lot of people
No sweat.
564
plans in Central Australia
relative


“A lot of thought has gone into what our current measures are and why those are the measures,” he said.
565
Moore warned current infection control


“In one situation, residents have been forced to keep to their rooms for over 21 days.
aged
s
and
566
Colbeck


The prime minister told 4BC radio: “During the course of that week, I’m aware he [Colbeck] was doing not just issues that related to his sport minister [role]
567
”

The letter has been signed in a personal capacity by 13 members of Johnson’s Sage committee and subcommittees, a fellow at the UK Health Security Agency and an adviser to the Joint Committee on Vaccination and
568
Covid


Working from home will “remain important” but it will no longer be a legal requirement.
places
must
in Wales, we are being limited by a
569
A further 31,310 were identified as at risk of becoming homeless


“The end of the eviction ban has triggered a rising tide of homelessness
570
of years has gone right down, and wearing a mask is not that bad,” said salesman Stuart Whitman, 50.
Everyone should be vaccinated and we’ve got to live with it now.
571
saturation


Williams suggested falling levels of infection might also reduce the sense of urgency around getting boosted
despite vaccination
572
However, manufacturers are providing evidence to the TGA of their tests’ effectiveness
senior


“[The TGA] are doing it in real time, releasing results as they go along,” he said.
573
Despite the pledge, more than half of aged care workers surveyed by the United Workers Union said they had not been given a rapid test
by their workplace, instead having to source it themselves or use temperature checks a substitute.
–


But the ANMF says pleas for the defence
574
advisers are still considering whether to expand the definition of “fully vaccinated”
Australians
the pressure points for transport operators”.
575
While the scrapping of measures have been welcomed by some, others have urged people to “be considerate to those around them” when it comes to choosing to wear a face covering, and to “be respectful” of policies in certain settings.
576
“It is simply not needed unless we get down to sufficiently low case numbers that contact
Toole
risky and really make sure we do get people using it,” she said.
577
“Staff in the aged care sector are working multiple shifts, in crazy
”

Colbeck’s spokesperson said on 14 January the minister had helped deal with the
Australians in care
578
Victorians in hospital


According to data from the health department, almost 23% of patients admitted to hospital and 35% of those in intensive care are unvaccinated, despite accounting for less than 6% of the total population.
579
The lowest number of cars rolled out of British factories last year since 1956, as the industry warned that rising energy costs and further shortages of computer chips
580
But the virus’s spread at home will mark a fundamental shift in New
Eventually, New Zealanders would find new anchors, he said.
Omicron
Delta
581
Police


Some could be asked in writing to accept or dispute Gray’s findings, while others will have to be interviewed under caution.
police
582
in Berlin


The guidelines follow a ruling
by police at a rally against Covid-19 vaccine mandates outside the Bundestag on Wednesday afternoon.
583
Western Australian universities


“Acting on this promise, they now have hundreds of students who have arrived in Sydney and Melbourne waiting to cross
584
has previously indicated that testing supplies will improve in the coming weeks, with 16m tests expected to arrive at pharmacies before the end of January.
585
experts


The Labor MPs Julian Hill, Anika Wells, Patrick Gorman and Anne Aly went public with their support for a royal commission in August.
586
”

He said of the residents who died, “most had serious underlying health conditions and Covid-19 is not considered to be the primary cause of death”.
587
s name to prove how open the system was to fraud.


For years, the government has resisted reforming Companies House.
UK
Crime and Security
588
However, these DfE figures do not include children who were off after having a positive PCR test, who are counted separately as being off ill.
589
Scottish
Nicola Sturgeon
“What does she think this means for the many businesses who rely
On Monday strict caps on numbers for outdoor events
590
the state
Dominic


“If you do not meaningfully engage with the attendance improvement program, or there is no improvement in [


“There a range of options available if students are prevented from attending school, including the sick or general leave and exemptions from attendance under Section 25 of the
Education
applications
591
that they would supply free of charge RAT kits to all aged care providers,” Church told Guardian Australia.


The order still hasn’t shown up in full.
supplies
592
Both the Cabinet Office and the Met have concluded that allegations uncovered by the inquiry are serious enough to warrant investigation beyond Gray’s remit.
593
“Right now, our health workers are paying the price for some of the most serious public


Asked if Labor will provide more funding to hospitals, Albanese said: “
594
the various Covid-19 emergency


The NAO had long singled out the government’s “inadequate” attempts to tackle fraud within the £47bn BBLS scheme
595
Another senior NHS figure said: “From conversations I’ve had, I think that more than half of all maternity units will have difficulty maintaining their normal maternity services.
596
The committee then scheduled hearings on 21 January for the health department and 25 January for Colbeck, the latter at his request.
visa
597
or
Territory recorded 904 infections and one death, while Western


In Tasmania, there were 643 new cases and one person died from the virus.
598
“We are not going to put the
”

It’s the second aid shipment from Australia where a positive case has turned up, with a C-17 plane turned around mid
599
At the beginning of the pandemic, the NSW government passed a law to make it legal to conditionally


“There are no immediate
It is unacceptable
600
In a boost for travel firms and families planning trips abroad, eligible passengers will no longer have to take a post-arrival lateral flow test (LFT).
-free travel in the UK”.
601
chain
Conservative
party
, last week called the requirements a “vaccine vendetta against our hardworking truckers” that would drive
and
mandate.
602
Australians


The new schools policy proposal is a grants
– both public and private


Albanese will declare education is fundamental and essential
603
“Even the 10 tests offered over three months is not enough to keep my dad going, and we can’t afford to buy them in bulk.


“We have, right through
”
604
On the latest numbers, 39% of respondents approve of the opposition leader’s performance and 39% disapprove (23% of the sample say they don’t have a view).
605
” to visitors, and said he had raised the issue through the Australian Health


Sharp said the high demand for rapid tests meant providers were closely protecting
606
He said he had not seen a significant return of office workers, and was also missing out on business from early morning clubbers, taxi drivers and tourists.
607
in consumer


Amid widespread reports of severe cost pressures, the IHS
Markit
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

“Looking ahead, while
Omicron
608
Amid reports some parents plan to keep their students home from school once classes resume, Perrottet on Monday sought


“As a parent as well I know that many parents across
609
Germany, meanwhile, has listed Australia as a high-risk area since 9 January, but quarantine-free travel is still allowed for fully-vaccinated
610
An NT Health spokesperson said the situation in Yuendumu “changes daily and is responded to accordingly”.


“Flights are scheduled to transport residents from
the Covid-19
Priority
611
”

Traditionally, parents have been asked to consent to vaccinations of their children, including those in high school, with vaccine providers “usually reluctant to vaccinate, fearing legal consequences or complaints against them” if this consent is not given.
612
Twomey said that supply is “patchy” at present.
He noted that 16m tests are due to be supplied to community pharmacies in the next week, with a further
613
Centre
-term decline of poorer parts of the country in the north and Midlands, helped by emergency economic support from the government.
London
614
“Thousands of frontline workers are now living with an often debilitating condition after being exposed to the virus while protecting
-
615
“We continue to call for those
Department of Health and Social Care found that 73,000 NHS staff in England could be lost as a result of the policy.
616
“The fact that I can’t fly home for a funeral, yeah of course it [makes me think about leaving], it makes me think what are their values and their morals?
617
Sharon Goldfeld said interventions needed to be developed now to address growing disparities
the rate during remote learning, the review estimated.
618
outcry against the crackdown, authorities urged people to continue to hand over their pets given the growing health risks.
A UBS spokesperson declined
619
acquired via both vaccination and infection


Ferguson said the political stance had evolved over time.
“However, given that case numbers are in decline in all regions and that
620
Vaccinations were made mandatory for social care
”

The Department of Health and Social Care said: “Ensuring staff are vaccinated is the right thing to do
621
“Omicron
infections
isolation and quarantine
Sunday’s announcement suggests those border-linked cases have crossed over to the wider community.
622
He said 6.6m tests will be at school by the time classes start back next week.





In both NSW and


D’Ath said there was no national
Rapid test
623
Interpreting
Health Care


“The Covid pandemic has increased the number of people accessing interpreter services.
Voola said families were unsure
624
Over 177,000 people in the UK have Covid on their death certificate, according to the Office for National Statistics, the seventh highest tally in the world.
upon BA.2 infection”.
625
companies
and


Any of the energy service company’s 6,500 UK workers who


In theory, there is no limit to how many times an unvaccinated person might come into contact
626
We welcome the fact in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, people are still being required to wear masks in shops and other indoor public places.
627
“The lifting of plan B restrictions is appalling,” she said.
“Shielding was handled well.
”

Kate calls the lifting of plan B restrictions “a complete nightmare”.
628
protection from vaccines
”

According to Wearmouth, this is not simply a case of these people being fundamentally frailer and more susceptible to all illness
629
Meanwhile, an estimated 1,000 people took part in a “Freedom Rally” in Melbourne’s central business district to protest against Covid vaccination mandates.


They have recommended supporters
Invasion
630
civil service in England, said its position remained that it was safer for staff to work from home where they could, given the continuing threat from coronavirus.
631
and
And
that those compassionate visits can wait, when often they can’t.

I am luckier than most.
So I am not complaining about the borders.
632
Organization
in Australia


“Our study has been affected by lockdowns, when it was difficult to get patients to come in for investigations,”
633
“They will arrest


“This is not about their members’ pay –


He said the number of contested applications had fallen in the past six years.
634
“All my colleagues in the states and territories agree that the most important thing is to get schools back,”
the virus to rip through the school.
Scott
635
-Smith says the decision is not black and white.
secretary, Mark Olson, has labelled the border backflip a lifesaving move, saying there is a lack of hospital
636
Earlier this week the People’s Bank of China cut the main mortgage rate.


“It should be a concern that the costs from 2021 are becoming reflected in price expectations for 2022,” she said.
637
About to take a flight to LA, she took a PCR test to check for Covid


“The funniest thing about it all, really, is every time I’ve had it I’ve never been near a hospital.
638
infections
who spoke to the Guardian said that they were not seeing a drop in cases among students despite the improved picture nationally.
olds
639
Consortium said the problems facing its members were far from over.
also
music.
show that in a key month for retailers, there was an across
640
Residents sprung into action, offering to hide or adopt the doomed pets.
By Thursday, just 68 had been handed over by the public, according to government
641
Labor
because, she says, Australians have been “lied to” about the number of Covid deaths.
Oh dear.


Antic was on hand to warn Australia
shut
642
Its analysis showed that women made up only a fifth of the top 20 most frequently mentioned British politicians in media coverage of the pandemic.
643
In a widely publicised speech early this month, Zhang Wenhong, one of China’s best-known infectious diseases experts, explained why vaccines helped reduce
644
response team
So the community is very angry.
Yuendumu community being in some


“For example, people have been advised or told to isolate in their home
645
There were 2,743 Covid


“In difficult times, these are reassuring and pleasing signs in relation to our health system,” Perrottet said.
646
Omicron


“Victoria has already been through this with the bans on elective surgery in the last couple


“Hospital and ICU beds are in short supply …
647
companies
Commission
ACCC


Multiple companies have recently registered with the TGA to provide tests.


“Tests are being supplied in Australia
648
The joint federal and state government Rapid Antigen Testing Concessional Access Program will see millions of pensioners, veterans and low income earners become eligible for up to 10 free tests between now and April.
Morrison
649
Retail
stayed at home


A third of consumers are planning more hospitality visits after January, according to survey by data analysts CGA.
in
650
primary
.
trust, said that masks would be optional for pupils who wanted to wear them.
the advice to wear masks in communal areas would end
651
Beleaguered pubs and restaurants are reporting early signs of a recovery in trade, fuelling hope that pent
the Guardian


“There is some pent
problems
652
”

On Thursday, Esterman calculated the Reff to be 0.83 in NSW and 0.8 in Victoria.


“I would expect to see hospitalisations starting to come down now,” Esterman said.
653
Skilled
Covid-19, people that are offshore on both expired and valid BVBs


“This group of visa holders have been waiting for more than 20 months
654
highly
Delta
in Yorkshire
could
”

On Thursday, the Department of Health and Social Care was unable to clarify what the plan to lift the self
655
quarantine and 56 are in
”

WA’s safe transition plan, which was announced in November, set the way for the state’s reopening based on Delta variant.
656
The increase came after the government ended work-from
-month closure to complete the upgrade of Bank underground station started on Sunday.
Transport for London
657
Absences among NHS staff
Absences
in the UK
Nursing staff are facing huge seasonal pressures, with tens of thousands of vacancies, an enormous
658
The federal government has an advance purchase agreement for 51m doses of Novavax, with the first shipment to Australia expected to arrive in the coming month.
659
The American tour veteran, who has no medical qualifications, has previously said he is not anti-vaccine but opposed to making vaccination mandatory.
660
previously warned staff
,


“Visiting will be great, but the first step is to get them into the fresh air, to interact with other residents.
661
“As early educators and children become infected, or directed to isolate at home, early learning services are being left in a precarious position,”
662
for Covid-19 which should help address supply shortages of other treatments.
”

It will have a clear benefit
Covid treatments are an alternative
663
December
expects the unemployment rate to reach 4.25% by end 2022 and 4.5% by the month of June 2022
”

The participation rate remained 0.2
664
The ACT government


Under the Palaszczuk government, Queensland has taken a hard line on safety at work.
”

He said the age should not be reduced.
665
The report by Ucas and Health
One in four applicants said the current high profile of healthcare workers was a significant influence on their decision.
666
against
hospitalisation
,
whether


Face coverings have been a source of growing dispute in schools,
“This will impact all behaviours including
667
At a press conference, the health secretary, Sajid Javid, said the government was reviewing the definition of fully vaccinated, and may decide to increase this from two jabs to three.
668
Morrison
“The economic consequences of people not being able to go to work are probably greater than


Instead, what’s being revealed “is the opposite of planning”, Denniss bemoans.
669
”

Seroprevalence surveys can help estimate the level of immunity in a population, but are different to determining
even during small outbreaks
670
For those
Definitely


The devices are affected by movement


One pharmacy worker at a major chain in Melbourne said they had been out of stock for two weeks and were not sure when a resupply would occur.
671
Omicron
vaccination
”

Replying to the statement, Starmer said Labour “does not want to see restrictions in place any longer than necessary”.
672
”

Katie Williams, an occupational therapist who challenged Hicks, said she had been working under extreme pressure for almost a year and had found the incident distressing.
673
Speaking on Wednesday, she said she was relieved more people would be able to get those appointments.
People are just at their wit’s end.
674
Scott Morrison has announced financial incentives
, saying Omicron had “changed everything”, and while discussions had been happening as early as June, at that stage the government’s focus was on vaccine procurement.
675
ago to review fines
cases been issued to people who were acting in accordance with the law.


“We had many clients who were unfairly
Waiving fines
676
Since then, however, there has been a stark increase in meningitis


During that period, 41.5% of meningitis cases occurred among those aged 15 to 19, compared with
the Covid-19
677
on 10 January to arrange prepaid testing, she was told her procedure had been cancelled, and she would have to wait three months.
including IVF treatments


“It is particularly difficult for those
678
New Zealand’s tough border restrictions have been crucial to its avoiding an Omicron
At the last release in early January, a queue of 16,000 people were vying
679
plan B
up his decision to avoid stricter restrictions as Omicron spread, saying hospitalisation figures have since proved him right.
Omicron
680
cases including for Australia, Israel, Egypt, Albania, Argentina and Uruguay.


“Do not travel internationally until you are fully vaccinated,” the CDC says on its website.
681
concerns that they may have to close entire units and send patients elsewhere for treatment because the enforced dismissal of unvaccinated staff means they cannot run safely.
682
The Scottish Hospitality Group pointed to Scottish government research which suggested that the number of people visiting bars and restaurants has fallen while the number mixing in each
683
Despite the NSW premier Dominic Perrottet insisting schools will be able to return safely on “day one, term one”, the scale of potential teacher shortages has prompted
684
Now, as demand for medical care soars and workers are caught up in isolation requirements, NSW
in Victoria were also under significant strain, following the red alert
685
-branded tests, which are approved, in Sydney for between $200 and $300.


The ads linked to a sales website that uses the TGA logo to help promote the device
686
said although average total


“Despite widespread talk of returning wage spirals, Britain is instead experiencing the return of shrinking pay packets,” she said.
The latest period of falling real wages
687
However, the total number of patients hospitalised with Covid has been falling in more recent days: it stood at 19,345
Monday
February 2021
688
Ibiza
Jadot called for his resignation, saying: “


Government ministers said Blanquer had been working constantly over the new year period and was in permanent
689
Two employees were also confirmed to have the disease, including one who cleans out the animal cages and handles the hamsters.
conservation
690
Scott Morrison has urged parents to ignore the “dangerous messages” of government MP
George
“Vaccinations save lives.



an
after vaccination
691
The state also saw a jump in hospital admissions, with 819 people currently being treated for the virus, compared to 702 cases on Monday.
692
NSW will reportedly ask students to take two rapid antigen tests a week under a plan being developed in concert with the Victorian government.
693
”

“Any test costing more than $30, even with supply constraints, is almost certainly too expensive and would seem to be taking advantage of the current circumstances,” he added.
694
Covid
Omicron
case numbers
.
and
”

The fickleness of planning during a pandemic was also underscored in the ABS’s release of international
695
“We do not have national data collection for Covid-19, full stop,” he says.


In most categories, more men are dying.
Morrison and others
696
The announcement comes after Cathay Pacific said in January it had fired two aircrew who were suspected of breaching Covid-19 protocols.
US
697
in our crown courts.
This will mean less money available to keep the courts running.
to elect trial in the crown court, increasing the trial backlog.
698
sources said Covid certification and home working rules were “unlikely to continue” past 26 January, but mask-wearing could remain.
Prof
699
The worker, though, said they believed that Woolworths’ decision to suspend taking meat from the Naracoorte site was “a very good thing” because in their opinion the company had not taken adequate care of the safety of the plant’s workforce of 385 people.
700
–
both state and federal
patients.
supplies of RATs,” Twomey said.
They have been used predominantly in testing sites for frontline workers.
701
Chong said hairdressers in her national organisation were reporting between 20 and 60% absenteeism
Organisations


“One crucial measure that will boost business
702
”

Simonis warned that if GPs and reception staff continued to get sick with Covid or to suffer burnout, it would have repercussions for the hospital system.
703
On Monday, authorities urged citizens not to order goods from overseas, after they claimed that a recent Omicron infection detected in Beijing had come from an international package sent from Canada.
704
The effect of higher US interest rates will be to make it more costly to finance dollar
debts


“Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one.
705
But regardless of the counting method, the numbers represent individual human tragedies.
In subsequent waves
figures regarding coronavirus deaths
706
”

The immigration minister, Alex Hawke, cancelled Djokovic’s visa, arguing that his previously held views expressing scepticism about Covid-19 vaccines
707
The NSW health minister, Brad Hazzard, again urged unvaccinated people
Hazzard urges people to 'give a damn about someone other than yourself'
708
More supply is needed, we keep being assured that more supply is coming both from government agencies and the private sector,” Sims said.
wave is having on the health and incomes of working people”
709
”

The health minister, Greg Hunt, also argued on Monday that Djokovic’s medical exemption “wasn’t valid”.
s visa was first cancelled by the Australian
710
Currently, unvaccinated people can enter such places with the results of a recent negative Covid-19 test.


Thousands of anti-vaccine protesters demonstrated in Paris and some other cities
711
Dowden’s comments came after health and scientific experts expressed cautious optimism


Meanwhile, the amount of time people with Covid-19
712
-resourced health system ahead of the border opening in less than a month’s time,” Mettam said.
the vaccination rate remains much lower, with some
713
Barbera says he is still struggling to come to terms with a health policy that expects and accepts that hundreds of thousands of Australians
t
714
Speaking on Trevor Phillips on Sunday, he recalled getting a phone call in April 2020
He said: “I apologise to viewers if I brought something personal into this discussion.
715
Streeting said: “We’re not out of the woods with Covid-19.
the introduction of the vaccine programme, but Labour is determined to prevent a positive overall narrative
716
North Korea has not officially reported any Covid-19 cases and has imposed strict anti-virus measures, including border closures and domestic travel curbs since the pandemic began in early 2020.
717
The Northern Territory announced a seven-day “lockout” for Alice Springs after 327 cases were recorded there.
people
severe
illness
GPs
-
718
.


The federal health department has advice on how to manage isolation in a shared house.






”

She says she’s lucky to have the space.
719
the figure for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is one in 20.
admissions have not yet begun to fall, their rate of increase is also slowing down, Hopkins told BBC
720
The Fall, found himself on the other side of the world with four days of his quarantine remaining when his father died in Dubai last March, so was unable to travel to visit him.
721
“Mr Djokovic regularly travels to Australia to compete in tennis tournaments …


The delegate concluded that, since he was unvaccinated, Djokovic posed a risk to public health.
722
An exemption


The special exemption appears


The employee said the slaughtering is scheduled to resume on Monday and he expects a similar arrangement to continue allowing Covid
723
”

They are super proud of having got their jabs

Vanessa, NSW

“Our boys are autistic so initially we wanted
Queensland
GPs and pharmacies
724
and
they
chains
”

“It’s a mess,” said Jackson, “and the laissez-faire approach to competition policy that the ACCC – well, the government
”
725
cases since the arrival of the Omicron variant show there is little Perrottet could have done to stem the tide.
”

While there is an acceptance that the emergence of Omicron
726
NHS
”

Meanwhile, a new report from the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) has provided updated figures on the effectiveness of booster jabs against Omicron.
727
The US, France, Denmark and Sweden are among the other rich countries to have recovered all the lost ground during


“While the UK economy should rebound once plan B measures are
Wages
728
He also suggested Omicron might be more likely to cause fever and cold-like symptoms in younger children than previous variants, and that protective care pathways meant such symptoms might indicate a hospital visit.
729
The president is seeking to portray himself as the centrist voice of reason and science –
on the far right, and the left’s Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
730
The study also reveals that while there was no clear rise in infection levels in those under the age of 50, the percentage testing positive for Covid-19
731
Lee said digital literacy was essential to understanding the changes in health advice and the way changes are implemented.
NSW
in multiple languages
732
gradually removing


Drakeford said that from Saturday the number of people who could be present at outdoor events would rise from 50 to 500.
733
It has taken a year and a half but the UK economy has regained the ground lost during the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Governments
734
Victorian health authorities say the Pullman Melbourne and the Mantra Epping will eventually accommodate up to 300 patients once fully operational.
735
the health system is “under pressure”, saying it would be a “difficult few weeks ahead”.
“There still will be people that have not experienced or been exposed to Omicron.
736
“Outdoor Christian services are held during the camp but these are only a small part of the program … and any singing is only a small part of each service (a video circulating
737
”

The survey of nearly 6,500 teachers found that in some schools more than a third of pupils did not have access to laptops or tablets if required for remote learning.
738
In a statement the administration said: “The Welsh government is able to start removing the protections put in place in response to the Omicron wave, thanks to the support of people across Wales and the successful booster campaign – more than
739
conferences
and


Shahab had previously warned that residents should refrain from gathering and socializing indoors.


But provinces
healthcare
740
Several dozen people


The Good Law Project has already started legal proceedings over the Met’s refusal to investigate reports of the Christmas party on 18 December 2020.
741
“We must remember that the two areas Javid’s predecessor, Matt Hancock, had power over were PPE and test and trace, both of which were extremely
742
The event was still being planned
”

The Tories’ discomfort over
No 10 garden party on 20 May 2020, in defiance of a UK-wide ban on gatherings.
743
Territory on Wednesday announced it was closing three testing clinics


Queensland Health said it had sufficient stock of test kits “to maintain current capacity”.
744
the closure of hundreds of primary schools in protest at the government’s handling of Covid-19 measures in the education sector.
Teachers and education
745
trusts, warned that NHS performance is likely to have deteriorated even further in the weeks since the picture captured by these data because of Omicron leaving people needing
746
rule
”

His imagery was not confined to football, however.


He described his time as deputy chief medical officer (CMO) as “the most challenging of my professional career, especially the Covid response”.
747
the


“We are still waiting for more details from the French government on entry requirements such as the rules that will apply for children.
748
The letter sets out that private hospital
guarantee there is a material risk that the NHS pays for activity that is not performed.
But
,
-
749
Covid


At prime minister’s questions on Wednesday, Johnson said: “We are certainly looking at reducing the isolation period, and we hope to bring you more about that ... as fast as possible.
750
Organisations


After enjoying a few months of pre
industries


She said free rapid tests were a “key measure” needed to keep workers and the community safe.
751
“We mustn’t forget that vulnerable groups will still likely remain more vulnerable,” Kao said.
T


Will new drugs help?
If taken soon enough
752
The number of infections is expected to grow further among a population with a significantly lower vaccination rate than the rest of the country.


The border force said its Covid-19
753
10 to 17 January


“It is doing so through
requirements
.
“Employers do not want to pay, leaving the cost to be borne by individual workers.
754
”

The health minister, Yvette D’ath, said border restrictions were becoming “less important by the day”.


The increasing case numbers have led to today’s six deaths
in Queensland
755
Unlike in previous Covid waves, the hospital’s HDU is now housing Covid





“Basically, one of them is responsible for compression, one for airways and other one
756
deal with a surge in Covid patients and the number of staff off sick and unable to work.


Of the 200 military personnel involved, 40 were doctors
757
Sign up to receive the top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

The shift to rapid testing has come amid increasing uncertainty around the reliability of Covid
758
“Levels of vaccination in the NHS are high and rising and we should be using discussion, persuasion and education to increase
vaccination
759
Johnson has said people should wait for an inquiry into a series of alleged lockdown


He said: “As colleagues are saying to one another and off the record,
760
“Despite his food being mediocre, he’s still willing to cook, which I
the experience, the prolonged lockdown has not caused romance to bloom.
761
”

Two hundred and sixty of Burgertory’s 400 staff have had Covid.
Maus said opening up was a ‘double edged sword’ as businesses were not receiving any financial support.
762
”

“The entire system is under strain
These include
“
We
symptoms


“However, people who are high risk should contact their GP,” Price says.
763
For example, some types of chicken are in short supply because there have been staffing shortages in the boning rooms that chop



NSW
,
at
764
”

Arunachalam said this meant that in some
workforce and to cover any increased costs incurred due to a Covid-19 outbreak among staff and care recipients.
765
The tight travel restrictions were also imposed during what analysts see as a breakdown of trust between the British and French governments in the wake of Brexit over a host of issues from migrants to fishing.
766
Lauterbach announced on Wednesday that the country had enough stocks to give every German three more jabs, having procured an
the plenary hall, as long as they have an official negative test result.
767
Sign up to receive the top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

“Many older


“Working people have made incredible sacrifices and stepped up.
768
Three Australian music festivals
Tamworth Country


In December, Victoria introduced Covid-19


“Omicron has played out worse than anyone expected.
769
vacancies surged across Australia
”

The decision announced by the NSW premier


“Logic would have it that to avoid penalties and to continue working, workers will not have the test,” Nieuwenhuis said.
770
If we establish a precedent whereby people who have no ability to fly find themselves at a place where there is a [navy] vessel, that is heading for [New Zealand], with available space and medical staff on board, I can
771
She said her cabinet would continue to consider the possibility of extending the requirement for Covid passports, which are currently needed for nightclub entry, to other venues.
772
At the start of the Covid pandemic, the federal government spent millions of dollars on awareness campaigns convincing
Australians
outdoors
773
“Once the ACV’s final report is received and reviewed by relevant parties, the TGA will be in a position to make a decision,” a spokesperson for the Department of Health said.
774
In the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is considering changing its guidance to suggest that people who can consistently wear N95s instead of cloth masks should do so, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday.
occupational safety
775
The 175,000 total


There were more than 7,000 deaths in November and December last year, compared with about 30,000 in November and December 2020.
776
You can only imagine the pain, anguish and anger this news has brought to me and those of us lost a loved one to Covid-19.
impossible to know whether you yourself attended this event of 20 May 2020.
777
The prime minister’s official spokesperson on Tuesday said: “I think the Cabinet Office has been clear that they’re in contact with the police and obviously the police have the ability to start an investigation should they see fit to do so.
778
”

She added: “It’s not fair but it doesn’t matter what I think – it’s not going to change anything.
Barnsley
’ That’s what it feels like the prime minister is doing.
779
Covid funding expires at the end of March, transport authorities have warned.


The strategy, entitled
”

The driver shortage has left people ever more frustrated.
780
If it was known that Johnson attended the 20 May event, and that it was as described in the email, then the prime minister would appear to have been deliberately untruthful.
781
scheme


While the UK has one of the highest vaccine uptakes
this plan appears to be a good move given that so many are not in good health and are vulnerable
782
infection
.
protection


The UKHSA is leading work on the issue along with the government’s Covid taskforce based in the Cabinet Office.
783
Transport
Association, the industry body, forecasts that passenger numbers will not reach pre
The levy is likely to be passed directly on to travellers.
784
“This has disrupted production and distribution capability, and impacted
Australia has confirmed is suffering from a shortage of some products due to difficulty in obtaining fresh chicken pieces
785
“Our priority is to provide care to
isolating


In New South Wales, ambulance services are also under severe strain.
Ambulance also recalled 11
emergency
786
”

McManus said that during previous waves “there was a sense that we’re all in this together”, but the failure of the Morrison government to plan for the reopening of the economy had destroyed this.
787
”

Sayers is also frustrated by the lack of data on the vaccination of children with a disability, and met with the health department to lobby for an improved and streamlined process on Tuesday.
788
In an opinion
piece, published by the Gold Coast Bulletin on Monday, Tate said constant rule changes had tested the goodwill of the community.
789
Last month, Canada’s government implored residents not to leave the country for non-essential travel.


Despite a high vaccination rate in Canada and masking
790
NHS England has struck a deal with private healthcare providers under which their hospitals will be ready to start treating NHS
Sajid Javid would look to private hospitals to ease the NHS’s burden.
791
Such was the strangeness of the times, that people were ecstatically celebrating the reopening of McDonald’s drive
to meet
➡
people
police
792
cases
-month agreement means private healthcare staff
Health
UK
Whitehall
”

The number of hospitalisations has been slower to rise than Covid
793
Nurseries in England
years settings, with almost 3,700 reports in a single week.


The latest figures represent a significant jump in cases.
794
According to the latest figures, there were 17,120
Covid
– to 141,472 on Sunday before rising to 142,224 on Monday.
Covid
test were reported
795
Aged care providers warned the federal government in November last year that widespread


“The commonwealth itself is asking people to advise five days in advance
796
The cut
The group is planning to open at least one new store in the year ahead, in Blackpool, while the Shrewsbury store will relocate.
Today
797
immigration system, arguing that a capacity to introduce something similar was one of the main advantages for the UK of leaving the EU:

Nigel Farage (@Nigel_Farage)
798
pelting
If it is approved, the government says the law will come into effect on 17 January.
There have been numerous reports of attacks on MPs and their property.
France
799
”

“These workers must remain at home and isolate when they are not at work until they are cleared from Covid,” the spokesperson said, adding SA Health had sent a Covid rapid response team to the abattoir in Naracoorte to test “all relevant staff”.
800
The government has also warned people of punishment for concealing infections or failing to implement anti-pandemic measures adequately.
Zhu
801
”

But the Labor leader,
could
outbreak of a new variant, which would result in a significant government response including lockdowns.
in 2021
802
Morrison


Details as to how the scheme will work are yet to be finalised, however it is understood pharmacies will be paid a fee per testing
803
–
The government is facing significant pressure from advocacy groups like Grounded Kiwis to make it easier for overseas New
”

The Covid-19
804
someone
hospitals


The measure was also used during the Delta wave of infections, and Pearce stressed it “should not be seen
At Nepean [hospital]
805
It will highlight the risks of Covid-19
pregnant women admitted to hospital
, the chief scientific adviser to the DHSC, said: “Getting a Covid-19 vaccine
806
Employment experts have suggested that “no jab, no job” policies would be difficult for companies in the UK to enforce because of stronger worker
807
A further 141,472 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases were recorded as of 9am on Sunday, the fourth consecutive day that infection numbers have fallen.
808
a result of compulsory vaccination
“We don’t mandate any vaccine in the UK.
For example, Italy now has a total of 10 vaccines that are mandatory.
809
cases


Ahead of the coming peak the government will also allow critical workers who are close contacts to leave quarantine in order to work.
810
“These tests will be crucial to ensure that we get kids back to school day one, term one,” he said.
Michael Kidd
on the furloughing issue with particularly the health workforce”.
811
Within the Alfred, though, staff are already concerned that care is being compromised.
on, leaving a lot of vulnerable patients neglected,” one staffer told Guardian Australia.
812
in the UK


In the past seven days, 1,271 people have died, a 38% rise on the week before.


Last January, the UK became the first European country to pass 100,000 deaths.
813
France


Some hospitals have reported that 85% of ICU patients are not vaccinated against Covid-19.
Data shows that 90% of over-12s eligible
814
The emergence of Omicron could be the “first ray of light” towards living with Covid as an endemic disease, according to a government scientific adviser.
815
but health authorities say almost half (26,428) the positive cases in the past 24 hours were RAT results, with many of those taken earlier in the week.
816
Staff at the hospital serving tourist mecca Byron Bay in northern New South Wales say the facility is under “extreme strain”, with Covid
“These are often all taken up, so we have Covid
Midwives
817
Marble


After an internal review, Westminster council said it “must learn the lessons of the Mound project” after it had a “lack of sufficient
818
Elective surgeries are being cancelled.


Australians were promised freedom, and with it a return to something resembling normality as we started to live with Covid.
819
The testing centres are full and I’ve been to 13 pharmacies today looking for a RAT.
in NSW
old cannot wait in a queue and no rapid tests are available.
820
”

‘Please come and get your jab’

Since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, the bush has indeed protected many locals.
What is difficult is if people go bush and they are sick
locums
821
”

So what can we do to reduce our personal risks while we
Seriously.
but if you’re going to that kind of event, take all reasonable precautions.
822
patients


Concord hospital, which earlier this week told
patients
,
-service leave or leave without pay are not being approved, he said.
823
“And I worry that people who have it now don’t have that.
Omicron
“Even if you’ve had a booster, it’s about protecting other people,” says Moy.
824
Aside from not capturing a true figure for new infections, the lowering of standards for collecting
infections
measured at different stages
825
The government’s own impact assessment of its policy concluded that as many as 73,000 staff may leave rather than get jabbed.
Grady
The disclosure prompted claims that hospitals are “simply not safe”.
826
.
test were reported, while hospitals around the country remain under pressure.


According to updated figures, there were 18,015
Statistics
827
inquiry into the behaviour of 13 senior government officials who
A recent poll showed that less than a quarter of those surveyed in Hong Kong approved of the government’s performance.
828
Growth
supply



isolate
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

According to the latest figures from IHS Markit and Cips, housebuilding experienced
UK
829
rose


Including non-Covid absences, more than 80,000 staff were absent each day
Resilience
almost half of all absences are now down to Covid.
830
ministers
,
”

Joanna Casson, a registered nurse who is no longer able to visit her 81-year
after Christmas


She said: “
The MP is set
help.
831
the
The CDC said the investigation had been undertaken and the ship was now under observation.
new Covid-19 cases
An inquiry into the debacle
832
Australia’s treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, has tested positive to Covid-19, he announced late on Friday.
Covid
I




I
—


National cabinet also agreed to remove the requirement for people who test positive on a RAT to get a PCR test.
isolating
New South Wales is expected to follow suit next week.
833
”

McMullen also cautioned that the modelling only illustrates hospital bed capacity and doesn’t show likely emergency room levels, which continue to bear the brunt of the pressure.
834
contacts who test negative to be done away with so that workers who are cleared of the disease can immediately return to work.
chain
we
I
”
835
New state modelling shows the health system will come under increased pressure in the next few weeks although Perrottet on Friday described the predictions as “encouraging”.
836
local government


Here we have brought together the number of cases per LGA from NSW, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia.
periods
837
The system will be made available from “next week.
NSW
parks
Cinemas and theatres are currently exempt, where attenders are seated and masked.
838
Almost one in 10 heads (9%) who took part in the survey said more than 20% of their teaching staff were absent on the first day of term for Covid
839
and


Under the changes made this week, most people who are asymptomatic can rely


In Wales, support payments are given out for self-reported tests without the need for a confirmatory PCR.
840
on Monday but is facing early problems including low dose allocations for vaccine providers, a reduced health workforce due to Covid cases, booking problems, and delivery issues.
841
Why did Djokovic apply?
It’s been reported that three other players with the same type of visa and exemption were allowed into the country.



Tennis
842
,


In a separate UK study, researchers found that countries with high levels of trust generally fared better than others at bringing Covid
843
-case scenario where the virus arrives before the rain, they could hem in vulnerable people living in overcrowded homes and unable
Organisation
844
However, from 1 January this transitioned to Queensland, meaning that medical evacuations will now take residents to be treated in that state.
845
”

It also highlights the concerns about workforce constraints that are now being experienced, saying it “can easily come under significant pressure in times of increased testing.
846
General
late
shipments
Week by week


She asked NSW Health whether there was any triaging of vaccinations to prioritise more at-risk families.
847
South Wales


“The entire January and February will be an absolute


The senior NSW medical official said the whole national and state policy relied on the assumption
848
to 1,272,131, up 29% on the week before.


Data released on Thursday also reveals that in the UK there are 17,988
in England between 27 December 2021
849
Travel firms and airlines
PCR
tests for lateral flow tests was “a relief for the travel industry and great news for holidaymakers”.
this year
850
School of Hygiene


“This is nothing new and it happens regularly with other viruses that give us a runny nose


“We are now in the traditional winter flu season and Omicron
851
French MPs
public.


The prime minister, Jean Castex, told
on those French people who refused to be vaccinated, saying the former president,
852
A further 967 people went into hospital


He said the previous testing rule had “effectively outlived its usefulness when it comes to travel”.
853
Scott Morrison said testing requirements for truck drivers had been watered down in a bid to ease the strain on the logistics system while the treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, has spoken to supermarket bosses about the crisis.
854
officials have been fired after a pregnant woman lost her baby after she was denied entry at a Xi’an hospital due to coronavirus lockdown restrictions.
855
Additionally, the spokesperson said that residents were “remaining within their own communities within the home to minimise movement in the building with team members dedicated to each community so they don’t work in other areas”.
856
It will be mandatory to report the result by calling the department or filling in an online form expected to go live on Friday.


Victoria has ordered an extra 10m rapid tests
they
857
“To be effective, it has to be given in the first five days [


It’s also unclear how long the 81,000 treatments would last.
Administration
858
Morrison insisted
-free entry into Australia,” the letter of 29 November said.


“This means that people who do not meet the Atagi definition of fully vaccinated
859
exemption
,
rules
visa
Open
Djokovic should reveal the reason he was granted a medical exemption.
”

Last year Djokovic said he was “opposed
860
Juncker said provinces claimed they wanted to do more research before rolling the tests out.


The first self-test in Canada was approved only on 23 April 2021, six months
861
.


Thonger worked in marketing and branding for a series of shoe companies, including Dr Martens and Dune, for more than 20 years.
in 2016
862
The aviation and travel industry has welcomed the scrapping of pre
”

Research commissioned earlier by Airlines
Manchester Airports Group
30
863
People need to wait 28 days after testing positive to be eligible
In theory, all LFT results, including negative ones, are already supposed to be reported via the government’s test
864
While the UK total


Data released on Wednesday also reveals that in England there are 15,659
The week before
in 15 were estimated
for those
865
Up north, the luxury Intercontinental resort on Hayman Island, in Queensland’s Whitsunday islands, has cancelled tourist bookings because staff are in isolation, while the restaurant industry in holiday hotspot the Gold Coast has reportedly ground
866
The supplier is also required to show how they would provide support for self-testing, including, for example, through instructional YouTube videos.
867
“They will not be able to manage.
in NSW
sitting
Local Health
spokesperson said a “transportable treatment area” had been set up to treat Covid
868
He explained that he could not force French people to get vaccinated on pain of prison or fines but life could be made very difficult for them without a vaccine.
869
many people celebrated at home again due to Omicron.
However, sales rose among all the leading supermarket chains compared with the final 12 weeks of 2019.
870
”

At MHA 10% of staff are currently unavailable for work, mirroring the situation in the NHS where medical students are being primed to be deployed on wards.
871
The first minister came under pressure from opposition parties over the quality of government data after it emerged that John Swinney, her Covid recovery minister, had used old survey figures to defend Scotland’s restrictions.
872
the pandemic, and it makes sense to better match the number of trains that are running with the number of people travelling
”

The passenger watchdog
Transport
873
PFOA


Herkert noted that FTOHs and FTEOs have not been studied extensively, so scientists do not know what health risks they could
be
cloths
874
However, the new system will rely more heavily on people registering their own positive


About 1 million people are thought to be isolating due to Covid, causing widespread
875
those
Health


Amid the rolling testing crisis, the government has been encouraging Australians to take up booster vaccines to try to limit
876
”

Last year Djokovic said he was “opposed
“However, it’s ultimately up to him to discuss with the public his condition if you choose to do that, and the reason why he received an exemption.
Seriously?
877
”

The strict rules have also prevented people from coming and going.
including poorly prepared centralised quarantine facilities
infections
878
home workers are
HC
Forum Wales, described the situation as “hugely serious”, with large groups of staff testing positive after the Christmas break.
879
The Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, said the idea was “ridiculous” and finally called for the tests to be made freely available.


Speaking on Wednesday morning, Morrison said essential
Australians
880
shortages due
”

Coles also apologised and promised shelves would be restocked as soon as possible.


The challenge has been compounded by Covid
881
.


In Victoria, there were 18,467 active
”

He also pointed to reports from South Africa of people suffering “distinct infections as little as a month apart”.
882
”

Responding to a question from a member of the public on Tuesday, England’s chief medical officer said a lateral flow test was a helpful tool.
883
It came after confirmed daily Covid
The public had “responded and changed their behaviour”, Johnson said, meaning the new regime had helped.
.
884
, and there is a bigger pool of people with prior infection,” said Prof Sir David Spiegelhalter
, said the case data should now be updated.
885
cases in the UK have hit another record high, with 218,724 reported in the past 24 hours.


The data released on Tuesday shows there were 15,044
Omicron
886
“The overseas network is under pressure following an unprecedented


Dedicated staffing for consular and crisis response services had increased to 210 staff.
887
local pharmacies
https://t.co/MIAkmlyPDl pic.twitter.com/PPUDxykFDN


The federal government also has a program offering free rapid tests to businesses.
888
“The light at the end of a tunnel is a fricking train at the moment,” said Gil Wilson, a senior nurse at the Lismore
”

Northern NSW includes some of the state’s anti-vaccination pockets.
889
In secondary schools, mass Covid testing is under way as part of a staggered return for pupils over the next few days.
in order to free up staff for other teaching, according to a Tes report.
890
The French government has heavily criticised opposition MPs after a parliamentary debate on the proposed introduction of a “vaccine
Gabriel Attal
891
drawn up but said there was no plan for imminent implementation, saying they believed the plans for testing was robust, despite widespread difficulties
892
She also played down concerns there may be many more undetected cases in the community, saying this demonstrated that the Omicron variant was proving to be milder than the Delta strain.
893
and


Tempers are fraying.


He had tested negative
.
Now he was sick again after being exposed to the virus
She returned half an hour later
894
the growing Covid-19
could


“The current plan is the plan we had when schools went into the vacation period,” he told Guardian Australia.
,
895
Queensland Health has defended an anomaly in the state’s Covid rules which forces


The state updated its public health directive for Covid
Queensland
896
Mei is potentially still under surveillance.
hunger strike, which no friends or family
In August Cheng was detained and later charged with “illegally supplying state secrets overseas”.
897
The scientists, who say they had been asked by both the university and the prime minister’s office to provide
due to the high public interest in their commentary.
898
But the AMA’s vice-president, Chris Moy, said that he was told in the meeting that the government did not want to intervene in the private market.
.
899
“The percentage of tests that are coming back positive has increased substantially in the past few days, [and] this suggests there are more people in the community with Covid-19 yet to be picked up.
900
Kulkarni says isolation inside the home as either a Covid-positive person or close contact is becoming “a common experience now”.


“Once a family member is detected to be positive, the immediate
901
There were 157,758
new Covid
show there have now been 174,000 deaths registered in the UK where Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificate.
902
Some of the slowing could be a reflection of altered behaviour in the run-up to Christmas, when concern about escalating Omicron
could
protection
903
The new law, which would remove the option of showing a negative test result instead of having the jabs, has the backing of several parties and is almost certain to be passed by the lower house in a vote late on Monday or early on Tuesday.
904
In Manchester, green food and garden recycling bin collections have been halted until further notice because of staff isolating.
Local Government
905
The reports suggest care



homes in England
,
Seasons
We are doing everything we can to support care providers to facilitate safe visits.
906
Australia has a long history of T-cell research, he said.
Peter Doherty


The new University of Melbourne research also adds to existing international work that shows the importance of T
907
”

The case has put the families of residents on high alert, prompting memories of the devastating outbreak in which 37 residents tested positive and 19 died after a staff member worked a shift while infectious in April 2020.
908
Australia’s health system could manage the “very different virus” of the Omicron variant.


“To try and force potential sick and infectious
909
”

Each pharmacy is able to place a daily order for a single carton, containing about 55 packs, each with seven tests, but the surge in Omicron variant cases, guidance to increase the amount of testing and a change to the isolation rules have led to an increase in demand.
910
But when it was put to the cabinet minister that shortages of tests were still being reported intermittently across the country, he said: “


He told Sky News: “The priority is to keep schools open.
911
to English hospitals after being bitten or struck by a dog, along with 47 people suffering a rat bite, and 60 people who had come into contact with a venomous spider.
912
Staff were not permitted to speak to the media.
Guardian
no hospital official would


The nurse from another major hospital said general staff
913
as well as the world.


Anna Mazzone had a different experience when she travelled to Adelaide from Berlin via Melbourne, and ended up spending almost
914
In Victoria, the health minister, Martin Foley, said residents can expect more rapid antigen tests to be made available in the “coming days”
915
Outbreaks of the Omicron variant have now taken hold in Cherbourg and Palm Island, which both have relatively low vaccination rates compared with the wider population.
916
home
isolation


Despite identifying dozens of close contacts, the ministry said on Monday that none had so far tested positive for the virus.
917
concessional
and
tests
Experts warned the health system faced being overwhelmed, but Morrison also urged people not to focus on case numbers.
918
More than 132m coronavirus jabs were given last year in the largest vaccine campaign in British history.
service launched
vaccination
emergence
919
refer
Institute
Graham Medley
proportion of older people who will become sick enough to require hospitalisation in the coming few weeks.
920
The figure doesn’t tell us how many cases are circulating in the community, but it can help to understand how many of the likely cases are being picked up.
921
will return for secondary pupils in England’s classrooms, we take a look at the potential impact of Omicron


Early reports from South Africa raised concerns that may be the case.
Zahawi
922
up inflation
.


Economic


While the government is keen to point to a rise in the number of staff
-employment
finances



UK
could
payments
923
The OECD and governments across the world, from America to New Zealand, have recognised the key role collective bargaining can play in reducing inequality and giving people security at work.
924
Shropshire council said that animals are sold regularly as part of the farm’s stock
management


Shropshire council said that visitor numbers peaked at around
925
disease
Enough business
Declaration
”

And Woolhouse is emphatic that further lockdowns are not the way to deal with future waves of Covid-19.
926
The state recorded 18,278 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, a drop on the previous two days following a significant fall in the number of tests conducted.
927
Omicron
profession
in classrooms


In addition many Ofsted school


“Face coverings are already advised in communal areas for pupils in year 7 and above.
928
The government said a further 154 people had died in England within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19.
rise.
term
NHS
capacity
issues
929
infections
, China continued to grow

But if its path continues to diverge from the rest of the world’s, the costs and challenges of the zero
930
Kramer


Nightclubs in Wales were closed and indoor events were restricted to 50 people, leaving streets empty.
events put an additional burden on emergency services”.
931
infections and vaccines
to get to the situation where you have gradually built up immunity in the population to the extent that people will be getting infected without much impact,” said Johnson.
932
“This is a huge, unprecedented wave of infection and very daunting,” he told the BBC, adding that deaths were “not yet going up” and that the country could be “fairly optimistic” about avoiding
933
patients.



”

To reduce the peak, Moy said it was necessary to reconsider restrictions, and to maximise TTIQ
”

“If these workers develop any Covid-19
934
However, Holmes said union members were “copping abuse”


Holmes said the current issues in hospitals were a combination of a surge in Covid
935
“People least able to access videoconferencing are often people with the most health needs
implementation



Rare


“Denying them access to
936
behaviour
Tropical Medicine and a member of Sage, said he and junior staff were targeted regularly with abusive emails.
behaviour led government security
937
Indeed, (someone calling himself) Mr Roberts (who sent this) is a regular
Sometimes it makes me wonder about the mental state of the sender;
motifs sometimes leads me to believe that there is a coordinated campaign, or at least that these ideas are circulating somewhere and they cut and paste them into their letters to my colleagues and I.

But isn’t all bad.
Help
938
the parent for the government’s lockdown policy.
Tropical Medicine and a member of Sage, said he and junior staff were targeted regularly with abusive emails.
939
The number of confirmed Covid cases in the UK continued to rise on the last day of 2021, with a new record of 189,846 reported in the previous 24 hours.
940
after taking the drug within three days of symptoms,
There have also been concerns raised over molnupiravir’s potential to lead to further variants.
941
”

“The government talks about getting business back on track after Covid


Energy companies are not interested in helping at all Restaurant owner Ibrahim Dogus

Dogus
942
although people are allowed four visitors on New Year’s Eve rather than the usual limit of two.
join gatherings of up to 10 people for new year.
943
with England’s increase driven largely by London, which has the highest rate of infection seen in this survey,” said Sarah Crofts, the head of analytical outputs for the Covid-19
944
A month later, the WHO said again that all theories on the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak were “on the table”, and urged Chinese scientists to carry out their own investigations.
was where the virus first emerged.
945
Johnson should convene a Cobra meeting to look into possible solutions.
NHS
the ambulance service in January, bringing the number driving on the frontline up to around 250, with more doing backroom roles.
946
England
services next week because of a combination of falling passenger numbers and staff shortages.


The industrial action affecting its New Year’s Eve services involves
947
infections seen in recent days means that the NHS will be overwhelmed “quite quickly”.
Peter Openshaw
Hopson told BBC
”

He was responding to a reporton
948
vaccine appointments, health leaders have said, saying as many as 40% of bookings are missed.
“However, cases of Omicron are rising rapidly …
949
“I think the current policy in both England and Wales relies on LFTs a little too much and I fear that lots of people are going to be going out on New Year’s Eve, spreading Omicron, because they’ve had a negative result.
950
Tent Embassy, established in 1972, condemned the actions that led to Thursday’s fire.


“To actually be closed, and to be closed because of violent
951
communities


“Nobody seems to have learned anything – the poor, the homeless and the most vulnerable are still at the bottom of the heap.
”
952
Queensland is due


The change in rules comes as the state recorded 3,118 new cases overnight, with the number of active
and
checks
Association
953
On Friday the prime minister, Scott Morrison, announced a further change to the testing rules for confirmed Covid cases.
Six people died in NSW from
954
In the Northern Territory, which announced a record 60 cases
mask mandate in response to the rising infections.
Territory
regions of Queensland
955
The advisory group said in its statement: “Household or household-like contacts are the key group who should be required to quarantine as these individuals are the most likely to develop disease.
956
Many other districts, including Taupō, Rotorua lakes districts, Kawerau, Whakatāne, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitīkei, Whanganui and Ruapehu also moved to orange at midnight on Thursday.
957
Interviews
-blank advised “against the widespread use” of the tests, a position it reaffirmed as recently as July.
”

Part of the issue has been the slow pace of approvals with the TGA.
958
More than 3,000 vaccination sites have been opened in England, with 180 new ones in December at football stadiums, shopping centres and Christmas markets.
959
”

Patriotism was not enough for success, he said, stressing the UK needed a leader who “can translate that pride into the action we need”.
960
Thursday’s newly reported cases for Wales covered a two-day period.


According to the latest figures the number of Covid patients in hospital
961
Quebec healthcare workers exposed to Covid-19
La Presse reported that hospitals in the province were getting close
the contingency
,
isolated
962
Ferries
issued a similar tweet, warning that “only those with French residency will be permitted to enter France”.
EU country”.
Government
the no
963
quarantine rules


Omicron accounted for about 17,000 out of Germany’s almost 43,000 new confirmed cases on Thursday.
A booster campaign has so far reached 38% of the population.
964
But by 9am on Thursday, home delivery slots for lateral flow tests were
Pharmacies
Johnson
BBC
He said the demand for tests has gone
Omicron
965
Education
Sydney


But online learning created a new accessibility
think universities are becoming much more aware that there’s online learning
966
-interest form for businesses circulated by the NSW government suggests it is still considering reimbursing businesses for test kits if they are provided free to residents.
967
system near Ireland drawing in warm air from the Azores means it is also possible that New Year’s Day temperatures could exceed the 15.6C recorded at Bude in north Cornwall in 1916.
968
by last week it accounted
infections in NSW
-zero approach, has been forced to acknowledge the state will eventually have to live with the virus.
NSW
969
However, the company’s £6.8m pre-tax loss was less than half
the brand sold more of its goods directly to consumers.


Sales of its high-end clothing slumped when
UK
970
the increase in cases appeared to be slowing


The Zoe Covid study also found that there were 78,748 new daily symptomatic cases in the vaccinated population
971
Asked about the prospect of untested people
, also said there were not enough lateral flow tests to support the government’s policy for their “indiscriminate use”.
972
Australians
WA reported just one new


The chief medical officer, Prof Paul Kelly, said Omicron was “very transmissible”, but data from South Africa
973
“So, you are only a close contact if you are effectively living with someone or have been in accommodation setting for more than four hours
Morrison made clear the intention


“This should significantly, we hope, over the next few weeks, greatly reduce the volume of people who are having these PCR tests, which means we will be able to increase the turnaround time of these tests, getting results back to those who need to take them,” he said.
974
The state has a stockpile of about 780,000 rapid antigen tests, with another 9m on order, needed for use in health settings and high-risk settings.
975
-manage their Covid-19 will not be counted in official case numbers.


The false reassurance of the messaging will result in more cases of viral
976
In other words,


Australia could reach 100,000 daily cases within weeks, Michael Lydeamore, a Monash University modeller, said on Wednesday.
977
The agency stressed
Last week the federal government agreed to cut the minimum interval between second dose and booster from five to four months
978
The statement read: “Following a French Government decision, on 28/12/2021, unless they hold French residency, British citizens are now considered 3rd country citizens and can no longer transit France by road to reach their country of residence in the EU.
979
He said people should celebrate New Year’s Eve but called on them to exercise caution and take
to revise the quarantine period again so soon.
980
The “race for space” between homebuyers has pushed up prices in some UK towns
”

Halifax’s figures showed that for Greater London as a whole, the average price of a home fell by 0.6% to £554,684.
981
The UK, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Denmark and Greece have all reported new case records this week, while beyond
countries
Meanwhile
and
cinemas
982
Ministers have been urged to take tougher action
against companies


A government spokesperson said ministers had “been providing people
983
The 34-year-old is on the entry list, but yet to commit to playing after the Covid-19 vaccination mandate agreed by Tennis Australia and the Victorian Department of Health.
984
Some people with disability have also been forced to turn to charities and other mutual aid organisations.
“The DSP or jobseeker payment is just so inadequate.
985
In other words
Hopson also suggested hospital


NHS data reveals the situation varies by region, with about 22% of Covid patients in hospital
986
However the data comes with a warning
that the figures include a backlog from before Christmas.
infections
5,929 cases were reported for Wales.
987
Unvaccinated travellers


The hard border also applies to residents of WA looking to return, although residents returning from medium risk
visitor
988
-case scenario models for daily cases are less likely to be reached, Lydeamore said.
and
on how governments deal with testing, detection and isolation of Covid from now on.
989
shortages


However, business groups said the economic havoc wreaked by


NAB’s last economic report for 2021, released on 17 December, predicted Australia’s economy would rebound
990
Tickets were still on sale on Wednesday for 25 other locations, with capacity for almost 87,000 people.
dance


“It ruined our plans
“
and
991
She urged eligible adults to book booster vaccinations after disclosing that so far only 75% had received their booster or third doses.
must
992
no available appointments for PCR
sites
in England and Northern Ireland
, and only very few in Scotland, according to the government website.
993
Work from home guidance meant city
However, the UKHospitality
England and Wales lost 446 pubs in 2020 and 473 in 2019, the last full year with
994
Earlier this week, Scotland reported its highest ever number of daily cases reported on Sunday, at 11,030.
Scottish


The country’s main open
995
”

In his ruling, the employment judge Mark Leach said he accepted the woman had a genuine fear but he did not believe it met the criteria for a “philosophical belief” that would be protected under section 10 of the Equality Act 2010.
996
Sir John Bell, regius professor of medicine at Oxford University and the government’s life sciences adviser, said illness associated with Omicron was proving less severe than with previous variants.
997
BBC


The UK Health Security Agency has said nearly 900,000 test kits are being provided each day, double the supply before 18 December.
UK
998
Thousands of flights have been cancelled over the past few days because of staff testing positive for Covid-19, and bad weather in parts of the US.
999
and
”

The testing queues are slightly shorter in Victoria, with the average result time hovering around two days.
– from a small testing clinic at Healesville.
1000
Morrison addressed reporters in Sydney on Wednesday
He said the federal government had been “in the market” for RATs since August, with four million
Morrison
in NSW
1001
“Once again, we are sincerely


“It is an unfortunate
Those who did change their behaviour did so because they thought they were cleared
1002
”

Though it is unclear how governments will distribute the supplies they are buying, Twomey said by late January RATs should be widely available.
1003
negative
infections


The result of the person’s day nine test was received on 27 December and they were immediately transferred
an
Auckland
MIQ
1004
Perrottet thanked Palaszczuk for that decision on Wednesday, but the NSW health department has told people travelling before 1 January that there was no point lining up for a test because of the blown
The dramatic rise in cases
1005
But the Welsh government said on Tuesday that its restrictions were proportionate, with the latest seven
English businesses are going to benefit.
1006
Data from NHS England released on Tuesday revealed that the number of patients in hospital had risen by more than 1,000 in a day, with 9,546 beds occupied by people with Covid on Tuesday, compared with 8,474 the day before
1007
The Rail Delivery Group, the British rail industry membership body, said that on Monday 6.8% of trains were cancelled, up from an average of 5.4% in the seven days to Friday 24 December.
1008
”

Edmund Inkin, a founding member of the Welsh Independent Restaurant Collective, said: “The feeling that economic value is being taken away and going across the border at a very difficult time is not good for morale.
1009
,
sadly
Audit and Research


Some countries have already decided that choosing not to be vaccinated should carry a cost, given the impact
–
1010
He said, even then, staff were “flat out keeping


“People are asking ‘what’s the point of it?
NSW


“They understand they need more resources and they would
1011
The site also indicated that there were no walk
lateral flow device] and PCR tests, and delivery capacity was reduced over Christmas and the bank holiday.
1012
”

He said that over the course of multiple waves of Covid, including Delta and Omicron, “the incidence of severe disease and death from this disease has basically not changed since we all got vaccinated”.
1013
Britain
Statistics


For UK trade with the EU, exports have risen
Meat exports


Other data shows UK exporters have been losing market share.
1014
In October, Cosboa, unions and transport industry bodies called on governments to make rapid antigen tests,
Going to hospitals, visiting
,
1015
”

“There are no easy solutions here, we have a long term problem for the proper staffing of hospitals, and other issues will continue to arise,” he said.
1016
Wait times had blown out to the point the test results were no longer relevant, Hazzard said on Tuesday.
”

In NSW, Dr Effie Karageorgos said she had encountered testing
1017
” Further testing will take place in the coming days, presenting the latest nervous wait for both cricket boards.
Play in the third Ashes Test
1018
gatherings would be limited to 2,000 people
for at least three days


France reported 30,383 new cases


Castex said that the Covid incidence rate –
1019
”

It puts England at odds with the rest of the United Kingdom in how people will be allowed to ring in the new year.
service only.
events
1020
Speaking before the prime minister confirmed that there would be no changes, he said certainty


“This is a very, very profitable time for everyone
,
1021
Hospital
in England on Monday


Experts have said data for the period around Christmas may not give a true picture of the current situation.
1022
Schools, however, have said high numbers of teacher absences a result of self
-isolation could mean they are forced to send whole year groups home.
Opening windows is likely to be more difficult when schools return in cold January temperatures.


Wilson said schools should not be paying for the units at all.
in public buildings
1023
mRNA vaccines


Advice published by the TGA says the regulatory body considers
at Mater Health Services in Brisbane, said it was unusual that Covax-19’s regulatory approval was being crowdfunded, given
1024
On Monday the pathology lab announced another


Despite the increased positivity rate, Martiniuk says NSW’s testing levels are “very good”.
1025
The BBC reported those claims, not yet included in the Trump companies’ accounts, were worth between £520,000 and £1.3m, leading to a total claim for furlough funding of between £3.3m and £4.1m overall.
1026
post-Christmas
he


A third cabinet minister said: “The data so far is still struggling to be persuasive of legal changes to be required.
I
1027
Gatherings both indoors and outdoors are to be restricted in size from Monday, with leisure facilities



Tighter
Emergency
demonstrations
1028
-turn, school leaders are warning that the rapid spread of the Omicron variant could lead to mass absences for teachers and other members of staff when schools
1029
.
He told the Guardian he wanted to use the tax money to settle his city’s debts, rather than invest in spectacular infrastructure projects.
1030
”

Since Hinds took on the brief, there have been two alleged terrorist attacks, the killing of the MP Sir David Amess and the attack outside Liverpool Women’s hospital.
1031
should avoid attending the event, Bennett said.
”

New Year’s Eve events have been cancelled in several cities amid outbreaks of the Omicron
1032
”

Just four “significantly unwell” people were in hospital receiving care for virus symptoms.


Tasmania has recorded 35 new cases, a slight drop on the 44 reported on Boxing Day.
1033
A fourth round of mandatory testing day was under way in Xi’an –


About 3,000 stations were set up to carry out testing on all residents, according to state media.
1034
“The people of our country will not be safe from new variants of Covid until global
Related
Agreement, which helps pharmaceutical companies to exploit new drugs they produce.
1035
and
Once again
1,032
to provide the care
patients


The pandemic –


He cited the Omicron variant, the record backlog of those waiting for surgery –
1036
infection rate,” said Diane Wehrle, insights director at Springboard, who said the figures indicated Boxing
despite a major bounceback from last year when stores were forced
1037
Table service will be required in venues
table service will be mandatory in pubs, cafes and restaurants.
which look at the effects of returning to stage 2 restrictions
1038
Innovation
He also said that he believed the UK was no longer “on the front foot” in tackling the pandemic.
pharmaceuticals
innovation
centre
1039
December 25, 2021

There are 2,000 health staff currently


The Northern Territory has reported 12 new cases with one person requiring intensive care.
1040
The government may choose to issue voluntary guidance on limiting contacts rather than risk another damaging Tory rebellion by recalling parliament to impose new rules beyond the existing plan B measures.
1041
in 10 people aged 18 and over have now received their booster
to protect against Omicron


More than a million slots for vaccinations are still available in the run-up to the New Year.
1042
Retailers


Online spending is expected to increase
to $1.2bn, NRA said.
The average spend planned was $557, which was 14% higher than last year.
1043
Everyone in society, from Cabinet ministers to rough sleepers, has faced “uncertainty, uncontrollability and unpredictability
,
I saw them
–
1044
The Australian Capital


In NSW, the record 6,288 new cases were detected from 149,261 tests conducted in the reporting period to 24 hours
NSW
1045
In Northern Ireland, the latest estimate was one in 40, equalling the record from mid-August, while in Scotland the latest estimate was one
1046
they
”

The couple are double vaccinated, and are now mostly recovered.


“I’m so close now, and the numbers are up,” she said.
experiences
1047
the south
infection survey released on Friday,

While
London
was “a significant factor in recent trends”.


The ONS figure came as documents
1048
No 10 said officials would continue reviewing the latest hospital


Despite the soaring cases, hopes have been raised that new restrictions could be avoided
1049
There will be 30,000 visas available next year, with the number being tapered down from 2023.
will likely fail to attract the numbers of care workers we so desperately need.
1050
Footfall also fell


England’s chief medical officer, Prof Chris Whitty, last week advised people to cut down on socialising, while Wales and Northern Ireland have both announced a return to the “rule of six” for hospitality starting on Boxing Day.
1051
”

Openshaw said it would be “sensible” to update the list of Covid symptoms: “The semi-lockdown has been terrible for colds, they are struggling to survive.
1052
“Millions of vaccine slots are available through the festive calendar so if you’re not boosted and you get this text, take up the offer and get vaccinated.
1053
estimates 1.7 million people in the UK had Covid-19
should think that the data around 10 weeks is just an indicator against symptomatic infection.
1054
which have been experiencing high case numbers, travelled into Queensland after it opened its borders on 13 December.
as staff found to be close
1055
At least 117 domestic services scheduled


It is understood that most of Qantas’s cancellations had been made to consolidate services due to lower-than
1056
The SA government has responded by overturning a ban on rapid antigen testing, as well as continuing with a number of restrictions that had been due to end on 28 December.
1057
flight has been cancelled & Jeff Santos has a 12 month work visa.
Max Harris


Although he is relieved the Santos family won’t be deported, Menéndez March says their case illustrates
1058
Ross Jakamarra Williams said that people who have been identified as close contacts of positive cases will be taken to Howard Springs to quarantine.
1059
“So, of course, there has to be a priority program,” Hunt said, joining the press conference by video link from Melbourne.
Administration
1060
Zealand scheme
—
”

The scheme’s restart comes after a delay in the resumption of quarantine-free travel for New Zealanders.
Information
visa
1061
research indicates that anxiety levels have increased markedly in the run-up to this Christmas.


The average level of anxiety experienced by adults
1062
England football captain
aged 18+, you can book online or go to a walk in site without an appointment 💪 pic.twitter.com/JXw7QjNNoW
protesters
1063
Local authorities will be expected to offer “safe and appropriate” accommodation


The data was compiled by the No
Accommodation
UK.
Covid-19
.
1064
The Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) told ministers
dose is required, has begun assessing the UKHSA data.
could
–
Hospital
1065
Another 16,817 cases of the Omicron strain were detected after sequencing in the past 24 hours, the UKHSA said, taking the country’s tally to 90,906.
1066
“Instead of attending 10 separate


Prof Sarah Palmer, a virologist with the Westmead Institute, emphasised the importance of creating a “vaccine bubble” at gatherings, in an effort to protect people from infection.
1067
The surge in staff sickness


Other NHS England figures showed that London hospitals are now treating about 1,200 people who have Covid.
and
1068
-related absences, adding: “These rules are forcing
-isolation rules had been published earlier in Scotland, but she would not make wider changes until the public
1069
LBC Radio on Thursday: “I think there will be people probably who will receive a fourth jab.
against the Omicron
backed study


The JCVI
vaccinations
1070
Amid widespread reports of bookings being cancelled, the drop in the number of diners in the latest week was the sharpest since early
London
1071
In an interview with the BBC World Service, Brown said a further 5 million people could die from Covid worldwide if vaccine access was not improved soon.
1072
and it is only PCR tests
microbiology
University of Reading
”

What does the data indicate about the true level of Omicron in the UK at present?
1073
Senior doctors had warned the afternoon before that replacing regular staff was a “shocking idea” and the plan would turn out to be “a disaster”.
1074
At a press conference on Thursday, Perrottet acknowledged testing clinics had been overwhelmed by demand.
probably you don’t need to have a PCR test,” Hazzard said.
1075
NSW


Most people are wearing masks in retail settings in NSW.
She said the new advice was to get tested if you had symptoms or if directed by NSW Health.
1076
“We have had more days of in-person schooling over
Tribunal
which makes rulings based on claims brought by Māori against the crown
Protection
1077
Perrottet described the changes as “slight” and said they would have a short shelf-life.
He also encouraged people to work from home where possible.
activities outdoors
1078
Infections had spread
-
famous
case was detected at a local university.
Health workers began a third round of mass testing on Thursday.
.
1079
“Masks are a cheap and effective way to maintain the health of the community – it’s something public health experts have been calling for.
1080
has
the
three times
olds


In response to the Omicron variant, the committee also advised that some older children be offered a booster dose.
1081
The New South Wales government is considering mailing free rapid Covid-19
to reintroduce indoor mask mandates amid record case numbers.
cases surged
mass vaccination
1082
The Imperial study found that having had a previous Covid
the risk of admission to intensive care and death, but the researchers say
hospitals
1083
Drakeford said: “They are paralysed by their internal divisions … When we see the evidence and we’re told about the actions we can take to protect people, we will take them.
1084
He said information provided by NHS England showed that of the 154 Covid patients receiving ECMO between July to November, 141 , or 92%, were unvaccinated.
1085
in those
”

Morrison said PCR tests should be used for close contacts and the symptomatic, rather than people wanting to “get on a plane”.
1086
”

Located on Hunter Street, the city’s main drag, it’s one of the only hotels that has not closed its doors during what was, pre-pandemic, the busiest trading week of the year.
1087
The idea represents a radical departure from Australia’s system of universal healthcare and has attracted fierce criticism.
for fellow Australians
1088
She says she had opposed vaccinations before getting sick.


Osman says that was his passion and he enjoyed helping young players overcome
1089
afterwards
He said the analysis by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) was not yet complete.
key sectors in January, Javid has also announced that mandatory self
1090
The advice opens up Covid


Covid vaccination has been approved for children aged five to 11



severely
The boosters should be given
vaccines
1091
centre
outcry comes after a group of independent
that the latest
echo
Recent government action
on the nation’s ability to improve its health.
1092
We can’t predict what the data is going to tell us before we’ve got the data,” she said.
”

She said the decision that was taken on further restrictions was “difficult”.
1093
The prime minister says people need to take personal responsibility for managing their own risks rather than wait passively for instructions.
Morrison
1094
cases were soaring in the UK, hospitalisations were steadily increasing, and the government had tightened restrictions to try to get a handle on a concerning new variant.
1095
Brexit
Exports fell
to a deficit of 1.9%, from a deficit
disruptions were to blame for the weaker performance for international trade.
Brexit
1096
on personal responsibility over mask mandates, Marles said the prime minister should act on “the best medical advice” in order to spare people “a single extra day of lockdown”.
1097
Suspected Covid outbreaks in hospitals across the UK have doubled in a week, official figures reveal
admissions were falling in the south-east, south-west, the east of England, the north
1098
Up to 10% of Cairns bookings have reportedly been cancelled.
”

“We are aware that some bookings have been cancelled in some parts of Queensland and hopefully that can be avoided in the future.
1099
Adelaide man Geoff Goodfellow, 72, says at least three generations of his family will be spending Christmas in quarantine.


The situation meant long
1100
will now be responsible for the management of Covid patients in the community.





“Patients who have been identified to self
”

“Patients who are self
Dr Kerry
1101
to protect
by mass staff absences.


Analysis by the UKHSA suggests that a seven-day isolation period alongside
services and supply
guidance
1102
In Western Australia, a father living in the Perth suburb of Guildford said GPs in his area told him they had no appointment dates for five-


“Practices have been able to order the paediatric vaccine
1103
In her letter to the IOPC, sent earlier this month, Lady Jones said that officers are on duty at Downing Street protecting the building and that part of their job involves controlling access.
1104
Others have said that risk to the NHS and other sectors of society isn’t so much about disease severity as the extraordinarily high number of infections.
1105
Her statement included some other changes:

Non-professional indoor contact sports for adults should not take place during the three-week period from 26 December.
1106
the registrars so risk losing about £350 if they cancel the event.
Johnson and I
but then you see people who are not taking any precautions.
1107
Ag
Saliva)
Rapid Test
Griffin was quick to point out that rapid antigen tests don’t replace PCR tests, particularly for people with symptoms.
1108
The thing that connects this moment with the early stages of the pandemic is confusion, panic and people going their own way, doing their own thing.
responsibility
1109
and
”

Sadler said the code needed to be approved .


Acsa is also part of an alliance calling for free or cheaper rapid antigen tests to screen for infections.
1110
plan
B
Retailers said they were pessimistic about the outlook
The concern now is the potential for rapidly rising sickness and staff
absences
1111
”.
Adhanom
cancelled
6am that


The regional health chief, Josep Argimon, said the measures were needed because of the arrival of Omicron.
“
1112
mask


In the ACT, masks will be required across
NSW
residents
in Sydney turned people away on Tuesday morning despite some waiting
Newcastle
1113
He said: “I understand very well that many Dutch people now come here for their dinner.
”

The German and Belgian governments are considering tighter Covid rules
1114
He had been directed to quarantine at Hobart’s Travelodge hotel for two weeks when he landed several days earlier on a flight from Melbourne.
1115
top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

“What I will not do is I
Queensland


“The commonwealth does not have the power to direct
1116
on the epidemic”.
If we implement control measures now, they are unlikely to be sufficient to reverse the growth, only slow it,” he said.
NHS
1117
New Zealand




The Covid-19
at a time when New Zealand’s daily community case numbers are trending downwards
22 Omicron
isolation
and


“Omicron
1118
He described Perrottet as “reckless”.
”

The public health and disability workforces were also losing staff,
NSW
She said her hospital is experiencing “severe staffing
1119
All sporting events in Wales
will also be behind closed doors.
Coventry
has already been postponed due to Covid-19 cases among players
Wales
1120
The Christmas Day plans for the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall, who reside at Highgrove in Gloucestershire, are still being confirmed.
1121
£49 or more
One shopper posted a picture on social media of trees priced as little as 10p in Abingdon, Oxfordshire.
Centre
destinations
London
1122
-based Covid-19 vaccine
EMA


The EMA approved the two
The first doses of Novavax are expected to be administered in Germany in the new year.
1123
Transport


“These are harder for passengers to deal with and more likely to lead to overcrowding.
We are providing targeted support to the local offices affected …
1124
The NTIA found that half of all businesses in the night
BBC


Sales at Fulham Shore’s 20 city centre restaurants fell last week, Page told BBC
1125
Organisations
video

Many businesses have been paying for their own surveillance testing.


Facilities had to have ordered the tests by last Wednesday.
1126
”

Together, the Oxford team estimated a ban on all gatherings and the closure of all non-essential


With Omicron
whether
Images of Downing Street
1127
was “not Africa’s fault”, and added that new variants would continue to wreak havoc because richer countries such as the UK had “stockpiled” hundreds of millions of vaccines.
1128
But he cautioned that its maternity unit is “one representative example” of potential closures on grounds of patient safety that the government’s decision to compel NHS staff in England to be vaccinated or risk losing their job could lead to.
1129
Anna Saunders (@SaundersAnna) December 20, 2021

David Wynnum is crossing his fingers he’ll receive his test result in time to fly to Brisbane on Wednesday afternoon.
As of Monday he was “still waiting”.
1130
On Sunday, the deputy chief medical officer, Sonya Bennett, noted that the new Omicron variant was highly transmissible: “We are seeing rapid escalation of case numbers around the globe, particularly in the UK, with the UK recording over 90,000 cases yesterday.
1131
Kaldor said throughout the pandemic to date, he has broadly supported public health measures implemented by the NSW government.
Medical
and
.
1132
The former plasterer was already serving a community corrections


“He did not care at all about the rest of the community,” he said.
.
”.
1133
that the Omicron variant is reproducing more efficiently in younger age groups, which poses an ongoing risk to the health of Māori communities.
1134
It came after Britain reported the largest 24-hour increase in the number of new cases since the pandemic began on Friday.
On the Saturday before Christmas
1135
In the lead
up to Christmas they say it’s important people know that help is available to those who need it.
It hasn’t stopped, our case numbers are still high.
1136
local authorities run vaccination outreach
According to the NHS national website, the nearest walk-in to the city is 17 miles away.
Undocumented
1137
“He’s not telling people not to go out – but he’s also telling them
”

He added: “We do need a support package because all of this has a knock-on effect.
1138
who had been helped to shield at the start of
There is also confusion over how they can access antiviral drugs purchased by the government that ministers said would be available from last week.
1139
NSW
Organization director


“I think there’s only one club that people should belong to here in NSW, and that’s the booster club,” Hazzard said.
1140
statewide
the new restrictions in the Netherlands, the federal health minister told reporters in Canberra the circumstances in Europe were quite different to Australia.
Victoria had 1,240 new cases and four deaths.
1141
Germany is tightening
UK
”

She said all passengers who wanted


Hauliers, transport workers and French nationals are exempt from the new rules.
1142
“Ministers must explain the latest scientific advice to MPs and ensure a proper debate over future Covid measures, including support to help businesses through
1143
visa
must
visa


McMullen said there had been a recent increase in deportations.


The Department of Home Affairs was contacted
by Guardian
1144
However, Australia’s slow initial vaccine rollout meant that more than half of all second doses were administered in the final four months of 2021.
1145
And modelling showed that if ministers stuck to the current plan B measures, there would be a peak of 3,000 a day.



Some scenarios
variant.
1146
service only.
measures
,
Johnson
My members would support the circuit breaker.
”

He described the leaked modelling by Sage as “very worrying”.
1147
Fancourt
,
”

The lonely corridor he refers to is partly the geriatric ward he was placed in after his coma because of a lack of beds.
cases.
1148
the virus most at the moment.
health officials have emphasised that getting a booster jab makes people substantially less likely to become seriously ill if they are infected with a Covid-19 variant.
infection
1149
Data from the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said there were 10,059 UK Omicron
Plan B
But the problem is at the moment, things are closing down anyway, because of the spread
1150
“Last year, it was to raise money for Place2Be, supporting young people’s mental health.
concerts this year, managing a socially distanced performance of Handel’s Messiah in May.
1151
to avoid new restrictions
”

She said all passengers who wanted
to get to France through the Channel tunnel before the deadline had been able to do so.
1152
, have led to long delays for anyone whose paper application requires some kind of manual intervention.
Prospective drivers are facing waits of between
1153
It brought the total number of active Omicron
Omicron


The Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, said on Saturday that the national plan was “not about case numbers”.
1154
Omicron
”

Blakely said Australia was now in a position similar to March 2020, when discussion of “flattening
” began, and in light of rising case numbers there were two
1155
Its CEO, Jace Tyrrell, said: “With rising Covid
”

Shoppers may also be staying away due to concerns about protecting family gatherings.
–
1156
-confirmed Covid-19


It was a rise of 4,669 on the previous record set on Thursday, and a further 111 people had died within 28 days of testing positive.
1157
The first minister, Mark Drakeford, described Omicron as the “most serious development” in the pandemic to date and admitted that other parts of the economy might have to be shut to counter the threat.
1158
is Joy Morrissey, who said Whitty should “defer” to politicians like her.
FMedSci

Age: 55.
David
& Tropical Medicine says: “Chris is a polymath.
1159
disease


In most regions of the UK, Omicron
it is not yet clear what the ratio of hospitalisations to cases will be with Omicron,
in England
1160
An increase in the number of people driving after disruption to fuel supplies in the two previous months also helped the sale of petrol and diesel increase 3.7%, although volumes were
1161
In Wales, the government is encouraging people to have a negative lateral flow test result before going shopping or meeting people;
events
1162
The mortgage lender said it expected the red-hot increases in average house prices over the last two years


The Bank made its move after the
1163
NSW
Technical
in Australia
Health spokesperson said was done “due to increasing transmission rates with the emergence of the Omicron variant”.
1164
Despite the queue, she got a negative result about 17 hours later.
Nurie
Salim went to the Gibbons Street clinic last week, there was a “zero minute wait”, she said.
1165
workforce, as he said the expected sharp peak of Omicron
hotspots like London, absences are starting to rise rapidly.
infection rates are shooting up.
1166
Expert


He is also the director of a third Covid test firm, Doctor Medical Services, set up just three months ago.


He said the
Expert
1167
People 18 years and older who had their second dose of any Covid-19 vaccine five months or more ago are eligible to get a booster of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, even if they had AstraZeneca as their first vaccine.
1168
The massive number of people in the online hearing caused delays in the premier’s case and others due to be heard in the small local court.
1169
Dental
based
Dental
This mandate is a blunt instrument, which will have devastating consequences for millions of patients across this country.
1170
Schools will be asked to use the time to look at whether they will need to bring in further Covid mitigation measures to deal with the Omicron
1171
leaders warned that
And either way the Treasury will have little choice but to introduce support for hard hit firms in the days ahead.
Tory
1172
Omicron
“At current doubling rates, by New Year’s Day Omicron will be infecting 1 million people per day.
PCR testing is a completely pointless exercise,” he said.
1173
– have raised concerns that Omicron could lead to hospitals becoming overwhelmed.


The data also showed that NHS trusts in England had to divert patients in ambulances to other nearby
1174
Jeremy Miles, Wales’s minister for education, said all schools should plan for measures based on the Welsh government’s “very high risk level” of infection control, and was giving authority for schools to operate staggered start and finish times.
1175
in November
But it was much bigger than expected, and shows that caution among businesses and consumers is starting to weigh
Statistics
winter.
1176
This week was non-stop theatre every night: a sprint finish to the festive down-tooling.
Awakening
A friend I was supposed to meet for dinner said she didn’t feel safe sitting in auditorium
t socially distanced.
words worried me enough to run to my nearest walk


I was pleased but also surprised to see the auditorium so full.
1177
Proof of vaccination will also no longer be necessary at real estate
locations
could make a difference, especially if there are multiple gatherings planned.
1178
The Delta variant makes
In addition
However, health officials have said any mandate would have to be accompanied by having sufficient vaccine stocks.
1179
but all of us have to come together to do what is required
,
can still go ahead, adding that there was “no evidence” that Omicron


New
1180
Those offered an alternative trip may be entitled
Covid
-imposed restrictions and consumer confidence in overseas travel has been hit hard.
1181
The Queen has cancelled her traditional pre


In 2020, the Queen and Philip spent Christmas Day together at Windsor without the rest of the family, having spent
1182
However, he said customers were actually spending more money as they pulled back from online shopping due to concerns over shipping delays.
1183
peers
Although there was uncertainty this time around, it said Omicron could fuel persistently high levels of inflation if it led to sustained
1184
The current discount runs out in April, when it is due to return to 20%.
Firms were able
furlough


Hundreds of thousands of businesses have taken out loans that must be repaid.
1185
The government announced in a statement that incoming travellers would require “an essential reason to travel to, or come from, the UK, both for the unvaccinated and vaccinated” from midnight on Saturday (


The tighter restrictions
1186
It is becoming clearer that the variant is more infectious and more vaccine-evasive, so how worried should we be?


The South African research analysed
Technical
1187
The update, released on Thursday, gives
infrastructure


The update contained $16bn of mystery spending, including decisions taken but not yet announced.
1188
the government to allow universities to move online for the final week of term, rather than risk unnecessary
infections and isolation
Universities
1189
boosters
Australians


The Aboriginal healthcare sector faces a “huge vaccination workload” in 2022, Dr Jason Agostino, a National
Health
”
1190
Thursday
-
Hobart makes its Ashes debut in the series finale
to overhaul protocols and completely lock down players, and Hockley said it was
1191
”

He advised the public to “prioritise social
Pointing
-Smith, said the comments would have an “enormous impact,” adding:
She told
MPs
,
.
1192
McManus said local health teams needed to offer transport, recruit community activists and even use contact tracing skills to contact unvaccinated people.
1193
“Train companies across
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

Other proposed changes include applying all-day peak fares to Heathrow on the tube, raising
1194
In Victoria, the maximum penalty


She said fines were issued disproportionately in Indigenous communities.
“The ALS continues to call for all Covid-19 fines
1195
to the Guardian on Wednesday, he said: “The panic is largely confined to the UK and Ireland.
”

O’Leary said the UK economy was suffering from “piss
Exchange
1196
Inflation
– the cost of apples and pears is up 25% in a year.
could drift
sectors are suffering from a wave of cancellations and collapse in demand.
1197
The failure to give the green light to more pharmacies to become vaccination
programme began in September, because fewer GPs are involved.
1198
Alex Baldock, the chief executive of the UK’s biggest electrical goods retailer, which formerly traded
as
PC
World
,


The retail boss made
1199
experts advocate vaccines
In the UK there is a stronger recognition of the potential for harm,” he said.
has been hard hit by Covid in terms of children.
1200
“The prime minister is so weak that without Labour help last night, vital public health measures wouldn’t have got through.
They won’t defend him.
1201
by 99 Conservative MPs
”

Shapps acknowledged that the CCHQ photo included four members of party staff seconded to the Bailey campaign, but added: “
.
1202
Authorities say more cases will “likely” be linked to the Omicron variant in the coming days.


“That’s a matter for government in setting
we
1203
Foundation thinktank, referring to the combined impact of the Omicron variant and inflation, said: “Next year is likely to be marked by acute economic pain for some parts of the economy alongside a nationwide living standards squeeze.
1204
companies
collections, deliveries and schools are all under threat from shortages.
about hospitals or clinical settings having to close as a result of this variant”.
1205
lines were hit
s pingdemic of self
-isolation but only a few services are seeing any significant disruption so far, but several trade union
Transport
1206
The Times splash ran with the headline “Huge
pic.twitter.com/L0SVdSNw9J —
Allie Hodgkins
to an inside spread with the strapline: “98 Tory rebels:
1207
areas are not getting access to the booster shot in a timely manner,” Belot said.
areas if the booster program was again run through pharmacies and GPs.
1208
travellers had a poor vaccine response and this did not mean two doses of the vaccines offered zero
the vaccines offered limited protection
1209
The fact this occurred is disappointing and I’m glad common sense has prevailed.


Another case reported in an overseas traveller from the UK has since been confirmed to be the Omicron variant.
1210
“As per the NSW Health guidelines, the prime minister will be tested again on day six.
and the announcement of mRNA manufacturing in Melbourne
1211
in cases but failed to convince many in his party to support plans to insist on a Covid certificate or negative lateral flow test to attend large venues.
1212
”

The delay has caused some
– for those aged five to 11 on 25 November and a number of EU countries have already started vaccination programmes.
1213
on Monday that an estimated 200,000 people a day are getting infected with Omicron
As in the tale of the wheat and chessboard, regular doubling rates
1214
up, driving a surge of disease that risked putting “significant” pressure on the NHS.
Commons
who contracts Covid.


The first minister stressed
1215
He said the requirement to get tested before departure would remain in place.


He had hinted at the move in a statement to the Commons last week.
1216
The Covid pandemic is forcing


He said that earlier in the pandemic homeless
charities had successfully campaigned for people experiencing homelessness
1217
8pm
there was significant testing capacity


On Tuesday, new guidance came into
More tests should become available for home delivery every few hours.
1218
MSPs: “
and
regulations
the fastest progress on vaccinations of any UK
, Jackie Baillie, raised concerns about care packages being withdrawn due to staff absence.
1219
posed
previous exceptional programmes (such as a furlough scheme and targeted


“Risks are considerable in the period ahead,” the IMF said.
1220
a year after experts urged the government to establish a local mRNA manufacturing facility, and vaccine production is not set to begin until 2024.
mRNA vaccines
1221
“Hospitality operators have invested heavily to ensure the safety of staff and customers, focusing on better ventilation, hygiene


“It is vital
1222
Bradley


“Our members are working extremely long hours
overtime
After


“This is what worries me about the shock that our community will face.
1223
variant.


“In NSW and Victoria, we have seen that high rates of vaccination plus some public health measures has been able to keep
distribution of vaccine globally.
1224
”

Merlino said Victoria was the “logical place to do it”, pointing to the state’s large biotech industry which comprises
in Australia
innovation
1225
coped with enforced isolation, and to amplify elders’ voices.
”

Mere Kepa, June 2020‘My ‘family tank’ was empty’

“I am a 73-year-old who lives alone
1226
should be about the new variant of concern.
Omicron
target to prime the immune system against the virus.


“It’s too early to say whether or not Omicron
1227
battling against its first domestic cluster outbreak this year.


The outbreak in Zhejiang
companies
A mass testing programme is under way.
1228
The tests will be processed at Amazon’s lab in Salford, which the retailer set up last year to process tests for employees.
via its
variant.
1229
”

The COVID vaccine booking service is currently facing extremely high demand so is operating a queueing system.
However, after the clinic warden spoke to his supervisors the couple was admitted.
1230
Dyson claims that the sensitive commercial nature of its work and the need to collaborate means office working is required.
Dyson will also honour
1231
Speaking at a vaccine centre in Paddington, west London, after pledging to speed up the booster programme, he said: “
Asked about the Christmas
1232
operations may need to be postponed.
BBC


He would not speculate


As things stand, he said, there were not enough qualified vaccinators to do so.
1233
Western


Here’s what you need to know before you book travel into WA.
International travellers will also need to undertake another PCR test
1234
”

The report said the four project
vehicles


Rest assured, readers, we will be going through this report in greater detail in the coming days.
1235
Western Australia
Australians


The state has not had a Covid
-making border closures caused some to go bust because of a lack of staff.
visa
1236
to fully vaccinated people from South Korea, hoping this would “lead to more active exchanges and economic revitalisation”.


The contract was one of four
1237
infections


Of the 536 new cases announced in the state on Monday, nine were confirmed to have the Omicron
“You’re still at risk of getting Covid-19.
1238
in London
quarterly survey of owner-managed businesses found that 33% were planning to make redundancies over the next six months now that the safety net of furlough had been removed.
1239
“I was banking on the traffic so we’d have a bit more time for our test result to come through,” Daniel Hokin said.
t
manned
It was crazy.
1240
“To assume another person’s identity and receive a medical treatment is dangerous.
”

This case was not an isolated one, Petousis
Harris
,
1241
20m patients a month, they will be measured in the many millions.
As one official said: “NHS leaders will be fine with the plan as they recognise that the likely pressures from Omicron could be very serious.
1242
The army will be
the vaccine








The prime minister said it could not be taken for granted that Omicron was causing less severe illness.
1243
Peter Openshaw
It’s now becoming clearer that vaccination is generally safe and that it’s better to be vaccinated than to be infected,” he said.
1244
Early evidence


The chief medical officers referred to the fact that the NHS is already under pressure even before the full impact of Omicron has been felt, a point that was made in starker terms by other senior health figures on Sunday.
1245
Over the last few days, anecdotal reports have suggested an increasing number of Omicron





He said he was advising people to stay at home if they have cold-like symptoms.
1246
causes milder illness, or the more extreme end of projections.
and
Immunisation] is still looking at the evidence as to what level of protection
1247
Theatres
be
losses.
Sunak


“Christmas party bookings are down by up to a half on some days and the situation does not look like improving.
1248
A further 22% of event organisers have postponed their Christmas parties until the new year, a HeadBox spokesperson said.
But
usual
this year
1249
Infant
could
rates have tripled since the start of the pandemic, she said.


He added: “Councils have adapted to provide more support online and, while recognising
1250
It will be the first time in 229 days people will not need to quarantine on arrival, provided they are fully vaccinated.
African countries previously identified as of concern over Omicron
1251
has been cut from six months to five in a bid to keep people protected against the virus and slow its spread as the Omicron variant emerges.
1252
in Woking


Early analysis by the UK Health Security Agency found a third dose of the vaccine prevents three quarters of people from getting any
1253
There was confusion
able
.
felt
”

The NHS website still said on Saturday evening that “the NHS is working on plans to offer a booster dose
1254
– one of hundreds of “community champions” who are trying to persuade people to get the jab.
was perplexed


In the London borough of Newham
and
1255
”

A spokesperson for the government said it continued to look closely at all of the emerging data, adding: “Plan B remains a proportionate
1256
“In Germany and New York, ventilation systems have been in place in schools for months.
by Education
the absence rate in state secondary schools is close
1257
said the move was “in order to balance the current Covid-19 risk and the need to keep people safe in line with clinical advice”.


It is understood the guidance will come into force from Wednesday.
1258
airline
invitations
I
I


This year we plan


Over the holidays, I’m planning to go the Spanish Pyrenees to do some walking and skiing.
Covid before I go or will they suddenly change the regulations?
phone and not look at the news for a couple of days.
my parties] have been cancelled.
I
1259
Health listed two new exposure sites that had been visited by confirmed Covid-19


“Transmission in these types of settings is contributing to the increase in NSW, and we reiterate just how important
1260
“The government will continue to look closely at all the emerging data and we’ll keep our measures under review as we learn more about this variant.
1261
The UKHSA report offers early insights into the degree of protection
the initial
infection
Delta
against Omicron
infections are doubling every two three days in the UK, leading to concerns that the variant could


While some data from South Africa has suggested that infections
1262
face GP appointments contributing to a 0.4% rise.
Construction also saw its biggest drop since April last year, with notable falls in housebuilding
1263
residents


Ahmed questioned how care homes, already struggling to recruit sufficient numbers of staff, would have time to arrange restricted visits.
1264
report a dip in winter holiday bookings.
Energy bills are expected to be ratcheted higher come April, inflation is forecast to outstrip wage growth, council tax will go up and the government’s new
1265
Employers are unlikely to panic in the run
However, the chancellor has hinted that steps to protect the worst-hit industries will be considered should Omicron
1266
Sky
Strait Islander communities “in light of the Omicron variant and current outbreaks in the Northern Territory”.


The Northern Territory detected four Covid
1267
The latest restriction has been put in place to mitigate
have been confirmed in Ireland.
Covid
Nightclubs were only reopened on
1268
top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

More common side-effects for children are similar to those experienced by adults, including
The needle used to administer
the vaccine will be smaller than
1269
He


“We are
pass


“From the Queensland government’s perspective, they’ll say we’ve dodged
He said police would attempt to keep traffic flowing
1270
But the Welsh government has said it is “strongly advising”
Labour
are concerned about the speed it is moving and its potential to infect large numbers of people.
1271
he visited
”

Meanwhile, a spokesperson for Raab said: “He is getting tested and he is self
”

In an interview on Sky News, Joyce said he did not know when he acquired Covid-19
1272
cases
” Given the rate of community transmission, he said, travel restrictions were “not really going to do much now”.
illness
Peter Openshaw
1273
Nightclubs





The introduction of Covid passes in Scotland and Wales earlier this year
Yet again nightclubs are being penalised,” he said.
1274
a number of Omicron outbreaks linked to festive get-togethers.
”

Underlining the significance of this speed of increase, the first minister said: “
1275
The government’s plan B measures, announced on Wednesday, will see workers asked to stay away from their offices and Covid passes made compulsory at larger venues.
and
1276
”

The problem is that we are on such a steep trajectory
hospitals
“What we are doing now is very unlikely to be sufficient,” said Gurdasani.
1277
because of high vaccination coverage, low hospitalisation rates (there are currently 151 Covid
She said physicists are still researching the exact impact of humidity
1278
Administration.
”

“This will be welcome news for millions of families across the country who want the opportunity for the children to be vaccinated.
1279
Monday 13


Proof of vaccine status is required at nightclubs and other venues.


Face coverings are already compulsory on public transport, and in shops and hospitals.
1280
backpackers hostel in Sydney has been placed into lockdown
police


Health authorities are concerned case numbers will continue to surge due
1281
for Health Research by the ICR show that the number of patients recruited on to clinical trials for cancer in England fell to 27,734 in 2020
1282
.
The government said the trials will be focused on supporting disadvantaged pupils and schools particularly affected during


He warned: “
1283
Joyce
”

Joyce added that it was “terribly important” to “work out how we keep people out of hospitals” and also that people get vaccinated
1284
plan
.
But


There will be a vote in parliament on the restrictions next week, with the government expected to face a substantial rebellion.
,
1285
A former Met police chief said the force was acting as judge and jury.
Protection
”

The statement leaves open
Prosecution


The policing
must
1286
Many more workers are going to feel the pinch as plan B kicks in.
scheme


However, any move to further tighten controls would
charge demands
1287
The accusation came from Cummings and the event was said to have taken place on the same evening he left Downing Street for good.


He alleged there had been “other flat
1288
-
and


Other countries to have used or proposed vaccine passports include Denmark, Israel, Greece, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Slovakia.
1289
Recent graduates


The government is planning to ease border restrictions
Thomas is on a 482 temporary skills visa, which is eligible for travel.
1290
This week, Johnson started the session with a dramatic apology.
The anger this provoked


In the 2019 general election, he won a convincing victory.
1291
Senior health officials
isolation and testing
rules
B
The decision is due to be taken after a meeting of “the quad”


The advice underlines
1292
Later on Wednesday, a larger group of ministers will meet at the Covid operations committee, before the cabinet is convened to give their signoff.
Referring to the revelation about
1293
case
particularly
in
and
protection


“There’s a little hint in the UK data that infections are a little bit more likely to be asymptomatic.
1294
”

“The government will continue to listen to the medical experts on these issues and strong suggests senator Rennick does the same.
George is not a candidate for the LNP at the next election and I
1295
-imposed mandates, saying a more “nuanced” approach is needed to address the risk of Covid-19 transmission.


The issue of state vaccine mandates continues
Gerard
1296
Tennis
Australia
Australia


If unvaccinated, Djokovic would have to arrive in Sydney by 16 December in order to complete the mandatory 14-day
1297
the national vaccination
383,000
10,000 new roles are being advertised include vaccinators, admin staff and healthcare
Voluntary
Joint Committee
1298
Later that month it emerged that the Wolverhampton laboratory was continuing to process results for international


The Dante Labs website shows it still offers travel-type PCR tests
1299
1bn


“[Beijing is] sensitive to criticism and [is] reacting
Xi says China will also send 1,500 health experts
”

The delay was in large
1300
–
Official
Pritchard
So
jabs in arms more quickly, and from today millions of people over the age of 40 in England will be able
-up vaccine.
1301
Zahawi
services and healthcare
Education


The DfE maintains the programme is on target and the 28,000 figure does not take into account the school
1302
Google has compiled data on the most popular search terms from the previous 12 months, which showed sport
NSW
and Australian entertainment giant Bert Newton.
1303
the same applies to independent arrivals
You also need to fill out a health declaration before boarding
Face masks are compulsory in indoor establishments.
1304
Health England analysis has shown consumption patterns have changed since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, which could have led to hospital admissions and ultimately deaths.
1305
comes


He claimed there were “serious
and
Skerritt replied


Rennick replied that he was “merely putting forward the views” of those
.
,
1306
, a senior lecturer at the University of Bath, said: “For young adults, the reasons behind the lower uptake may more be due to messaging than to accessibility.
1307
But on Tuesday the acting leader, Littleproud, said: “I condemn his comments and I think it was an error of judgment for him to go on that program.
activism
1308
vaccination
tick
and
Technical


It also heard that there were now 37 cases of the Omicron


He said there was still a vaccination gap between
1309
The current Icac investigation is serious enough to have triggered Berejiklian’s resignation.
.


The Omicron variant has sparked renewed
1310
“It is very alarming that more than 13,000 planned operations were cancelled in the past two months alone,” said Prof Neil Mortensen, the president of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
1311
Australians travelling internationally, was the biggest recipient of jobkeeper among listed companies, receiving a total of $856m.

It hasn’t paid a dividend since March last year and in the 2020
1312
top stories from Guardian Australia every morning

The ombudsman has recommended the state government acknowledge the distress the system caused,
1313
on UK Omicron


Abta said the new restrictions could “tip companies over the edge”.
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

“Not only has there been an
1314
regions of England”, and two scientists predicted that the variant would be dominant in the UK within the next “month or so”.
the Guardian
:
1315
NSW


“The data RLC uncovered clearly shows that a significant number of people are struggling to resolve their fines, many of which we believe have been wrongly issued,”
1316
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

The figures indicated that “the combined boost to demand from stimulus measures and societal changes has more than offset any dampening effects from Covid-19 and wider adverse economic factors”, it added.
1317
overall sales
Meanwhile,


So far this year, 1.53m new cars have been registered, a 2.7% rise on the same period last year, but 31% below the pre
1318
in


There have been at least 16 deaths so far where coroners have been so alarmed


She said: “What concerns me is the lack of any effective
1319
cases in England were found to be linked to travel from Nigeria.
ban
We
unacceptable.
,
The prohibition of travel is not informed by science.
1320
Some have been living in caravan parks in northern New South Wales;
Police
.


Who is allowed to come across?
Victoria and South Australia
1321
”

Authorities have warned that people attempting to enter Queensland on 13 December and soon afterwards should expect “extensive delays” and should “pack their patience”.
1322
ABC
“The ban is unfair, there is no evidence the ban works, the World Health Organization confirms that.
nations


“It seems that plenty of advisers are indicating
1323
Labour
in England


To “turbocharge”


Labour said that “mayors, local authorities, and health leaders have worked hard to increase uptake
1324
”

The statistician Prof Sir David Spiegelhalter echoed Hanekom’s comments Omicron did not look “really severe” when people got it, he said.
1325
AstraZeneca
It is reportedly being sold for £22 a dose to the UK government.
Drug firms


Pfizer said vaccine production was the “biggest scale
1326
It said hospitals and GPs had been told a series of Covid medicines delivery units were being established to ensure the treatment gets to patients as quickly as possible once it is confirmed they have the virus.
1327
That “may actually be higher for the Omicron variant”, he said.


After a slow start due to inadequate
supplies
aged 16 and over
Australians
1328
The emergence of the Omicron variant shows that the world is “closer to the start of the pandemic than the end”, one of Britain’s most senior scientific figures has warned, as he lamented a lack of political leadership over Covid.
1329
The recent Owen
“Levels of political trust in Britain rose following the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, as has often been the case in a crisis.
1330
Javid said on Twitter that, in light of the most recent data, the government was “taking further action to slow the incursion” of the variant and stressed
1331
Sydney barista Minh
The minister for western Sydney, Stuart Ayres, told reporters last week that the region needed
cracks are going to go deeper.
1332
reach
will cover all travel up until May 2022.


In most cases, refund and travel credit rules are set by individual hotels and accommodation providers.
1333
the doses will be rolled out from January.
Saturday


Marshall said further changes to border restrictions due to the Omicron variant were being considered.
1334
in England the green light to provide less care to millions of patients for the next four months so they can join the “national mission”


According to the minutes, it is “highly likely” Omicron
1335
treatments
.
variant was in the Cardiff and Vale University Health Board area and linked to international travel, the Welsh government said.
1336
Centre Travel
Smartraveller has a “Do not travel” warning when you enter a particular country, your Covid insurance will not be valid.
hotel
1337
Prof Nancy Baxter, said “there’s no getting rid of” Covid-19.


Dwyer is confident that as time goes on and people are vaccinated, Covid-19
1338
Several workers told Guardian
It’s not pleasant to ask customers, for starters.
”

She became even more aggressive, and I called the police.
1339
in Australia


“All the rest are not vaccinated.
”

Leong adds that not all the unvaccinated are anti-vax, some have just not got around to it.
1340
Javid and NHS England have agreed to leave it to GPs’ clinical judgment
That plan caused fury and consternation in the profession by insisting
1341
Meanwhile, the public in Wales have been urged to follow steps “which keep us safe”, with the government calling for people to take up the offer of a vaccine.
1342
gatherings in schools are still permitted in Northern Ireland.
”

He added that the government guidance was “ambiguous” and that this “doesn’t help in situations where the school and parents don’t see eye to eye”.
1343
When the party was announced, it was put out there as this chance to spend time together.
companies


Even so, a big corporate cancellation hurts.
”

“The biggest issue is no
1344
On Thursday the German government and heads of the federal states agreed that only those who have been vaccinated or recently recovered from Covid should be allowed in restaurants, cinemas, leisure facilities and many
1345
of losses, a watchdog has said.


The bounce
Audit


Other countries are also investigating the misuse of emergency loans issued during the pandemic.
those
1346
Commission


In his additional remarks,


The mine’s management was expected to be in a position to make a decision about whether a vaccination
1347
A school student in western Sydney is believed to be the first case of community transmission of the Omicron
in Australia



NSW
in Australia
1348
Queensland Health then wrote to some people who had been waiting
Queensland Health has been contacted


“We are doing everything possible to process exemption
1349
The NHS is forecasting there will be 230,000 new cases of post-traumatic
-old from Bristol, who became severely ill with Covid-19 last year, said: “I experienced severe anxiety about my breathing problems.
1350
Doctors



Infections were higher in many Black and Asian groups during Britain’s first two waves
and


The report finds
elderly
relatives, especially
1351
Since Kelly joined the United Australia party, YouTube’s parent company Google has also faced pressure to remove the party’s account.
Morrison
1352
Clive Palmer will be allowed to give evidence in person in a Sydney courtroom during his defamation trial despite being unvaccinated against Covid.
1353
On Friday, Morrison addressed the apparent contradiction at a press conference in Cooma, explaining he had been advised Antic was double vaccinated and “wasn’t corrected”
1354
”

The report
Risk
Arbuthnot noting as an example the impact of Covid on school exams.
Security
to radically improve the communication with the public about the risks they
1355
According to the latest data from NHS England, up to 28 November four in five people aged 12 or older had received two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine.
1356
The advice said that for festive gatherings in the workplace, “numbers should be kept to a minimum”.
suggested people should avoid unnecessary socialising
1357
Boris Johnson has urged people not to cancel festive parties or nativity plays, contradicting advice from leading scientists and one of his most senior health officials who have advised people to cut back on unnecessary socialising
Health
1358
Omicron
the variant found to be behind an exponential rise in Covid cases in South Africa.
Kao said some


Whether or not those
scale event in Scotland
1359
Deaths


The lockdown measures are expected to be approved by MPs in the coming days and will take effect immediately
association said.
case
1360
of
2020


Although the number of people eating out is typically lower at the start of the week, this was the weakest daily figure since July.
1361
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

Ingham said the way the travel testing system was being managed by the government meant it was constantly being “played” by companies and urged people to look for the LTIO’s Kitemark when booking.
1362
Theatregoers have not been required to wear masks but owners are moving to make them
transport


The RSC said that the impact of implementing
1363
The UK government has ordered about 100,000 doses of the drug.


The drug has been approved for people who have mild to moderate Covid-19
1364
Once the 90% target is reached, the borders will only be open to vaccinated travellers who have completed a negative PCR test
hospitals
Perth
1365
Commissioner
”

The app costs around $75,000 a month to run, and a spokesperson


Experts in the tech community last year called for the app to be modified using the Apple
1366
and


“The premier cannot make law by press release,” council president Michael Cope said.


“At the very least, a draft of the proposed direction should be released immediately.
1367
A Teesside factory that makes Covid-19 vaccines
, the largest single investment in UK pharmaceutical manufacturing in decades.
in Cambridge last week
1368
.
visa
-free travel from mid-December.
hastily constructed system for travel restrictions with one that is fair and transparent,” he said.
”
1369
proof” the inoculation programme, Javid said.


The BMA says that patient care did not suffer when QOF was suspended in Scotland to help free
1370
by repeated vaccine campaigns, while others have said it is too early to tell whether annual vaccine boosters will be needed.
mRNA vaccines
1371
How many vaccination sites are there in England?
supplies
have delivered the bulk of all the almost 116m doses given out over the last year across the UK.
1372
”

The video featured clips of Diana meeting Aids patients, and of Harry and Meghan at the Global Citizen Live event in September, which called for world leaders to adopt vaccine equity policy.
1373
We are not seeing that in young people.
BBC


The prime minister said on Tuesday that people should not cancel upcoming parties and gatherings, only hours after one of the UK’s most senior health officials urged people
1374
It found a shared concern among these professionals that the spread of misinformation had become more intense.
misinformation
misinformation
1375
People should not assume that Covid will evolve to become a milder disease, a senior scientist has warned, adding that the threat posed by the Omicron
1376
The move has punctured optimism in the travel sector, with demand having been briefly rekindled when restrictions were eased to allow returning vaccinated travellers to use cheaper lateral
1377
died while homeless


It was the first annual decline in the number of estimated deaths of homeless
In Wales, 22 homeless people died in 2020.
1378
The People’s Covid inquiry, formed by the political campaign group Keep Our NHS Public, said there had been “serious governance failures” at Westminster that contributed to tens of thousands of avoidable deaths.
1379
To boost the hunt, active tracing exercises are under way across the UK, including “loop
, said routine surveillance appears to have picked up the first known Omicron
1380
in 2007
,
.
variant could also cool the property market, by making some homeowners decide to wait before putting their property up for sale.
1381
“He said he felt residents’ wellbeing was being compromised and he did not want to risk his registration,”
She was transferred to hospital
1382
But upper house MPs have been told to prepare to sit on Friday and Saturday if required.
Lowan MP Emma
Wells


The government
Public Integrity
1383
Australians returning from


He arrived in Darwin on a repatriation flight from South Africa last week and his positive virus result was confirmed on Friday.
1384
The health agency has now identified cases in the east Midlands, east of England, London, and the north-west and is carrying out targeted testing at locations where the positive
1385
Hundreds have signed a petition protesting the current arrangements, which has been accepted by parliament.


Comment from the Department of Home Affairs has been sought.
1386
Appeals
Morrison government


In September, the national cabinet reasserted that disclosure of its documents and deliberations would “undermine
1387
MSPs that her government did not plan to introduce new restrictions at this stage, pointing out that “some protections that the UK government has announced in recent days in relation to England
1388
In Manchester city centre, 97 out of 147 people surveyed
was discovered on Monday, handed out 300 masks to customers without masks in the first hour of trading.
Police
1389
His official spokesman also made it clear that the government had no intention of moving to its “plan B” of working from home and introducing
1390
force in England on Tuesday are a “gateway to lockdown over Christmas”
relatively small
”

Labour is expected to back the measures so there is practically
1391
“National cabinet agreed that the commonwealth and state and territory governments will continue to pursue a suppression strategy, noting the objective is to limit the rate of Omicron
1392
“Let’s be clear: getting vaccinated is the best thing you can do right now,” Trudeau said in a tweet on Monday night
the variant emerged last week.
1393
The proposed amendments include replacing
Those penalties were reduced under earlier amendments


“The LIV believes that the proposed amendments
1394
However, it may take years before the vaccine is rolled out more widely, which will only occur if it passes three stages of clinical trials, and if that data is approved
1395
cases rose to 11 in England and Scotland


The NHS is set
on the safety of vaccines for children aged 5-11.
vaccine effectiveness is reduced [with Omicron]
1396
The committee noted on Tuesday the dual level on which strollout functioned.
went
b
”

The committee saw the popularity of the term menty
1397
”

The measures will be reviewed in three weeks.
other than registered pharmacies


The face mask mandate will expire at the end of 20 December 2021.
1398
Does the UK have enough vaccine doses for this ramp


Officials involved in the vaccination programme said they expect there will be sufficient doses.
Omicron
JCVI
1399
shopkeepers, said its members were concerned about potential abuse when asking customers to mask up.
retail staff


The shopworkers’ union, Usdaw, said the government
1400
The JCVI advised


The extension of the booster programme to a further 13 million adults under 40 means that in total 53 million people in the UK will eventually become eligible.
1401
prices for these tests range from £20 to £399.
This will apply until at least 31 December, and is a change from the previous requirement that allowed unvaccinated travellers to show proof of a negative Covid test result.
1402
The UK is one of the world’s busiest air
transport



Kao
”

Some experts have called for robust action, including advice to work from home.
1403
“We need to work collectively
said imposing tougher testing and quarantine rules would


He said: “We’ve been clear since we first knew about this new
1404
Transport


Owen Weatherill, of the NPCC, said forces would continue to enforce Covid rules where necessary.


The impending rule change, announced by Boris
1405
“October’s decrease was driven by borrowing brought forward
”

His research shows that in the year to the end of September, £513bn was spent in the UK housing market –
1406
In 2018, western Europe had had the highest levels of trust in scientists, but they were overtaken in the past two years.
Psychologist journal studied
1407
All of the cases were in people who had recently travelled from countries in southern Africa where the Omicron variant was reported last week.
1408
He said: “We’ve been clear since we first knew about this new
“What we’re saying is that people should have a test before they come into the country
1409
Meanwhile, the state added 150 new infections to its caseload on Monday.
Other information
we have is that hospitalisation rates are increasing.
1410
By the weekend, he hopes the virus will have bloomed, and they can test how effectively antibodies
Institute
infections are increasing steeply.
1411
cat blockades, the federal government was warned that violent extremist groups were deeply involved in the protest movement
Integrated Terrorism
1412
an
Statistics
previously set out that we’ll keep the provision of free testing under review as the government’s response to Covid-19 changes.
1413
Japan
leaders that the ban is damaging
Member of Kishida’s own party said the ban was pointless given that Omicron had become the dominant strain in Japan.
1414
The leading US health officials said on Wednesday that the nation is moving closer to the point that Covid-19 is no longer a “constant crisis” as more cities, businesses and sports venues began lifting pandemic restrictions around the country.
1415
The benefits and risks are


The JCVI recommends a “non-urgent” offer because threat from Covid-19 is not the most pressing public health priority for this age group.
does not disrupt childhood vaccination
The important thing is that parents of younger children in the UK, like parents in many countries internationally, now have the choice.
1416
Pregnant women are at increased risk for severe illness from Covid-19, and having Covid during pregnancy can increase the risk of preterm birth, stillbirth and possibly other pregnancy complications.
1417
Police in Ottawa


On Wednesday, officers began handing out leaflets warning
George during a violent confrontation with Indigenous protesters.
1418
explanations
perhaps due to poor swabbing technique
” They advised people to report any problems with tests via the “give feedback or report
1419
Less than 3% of all humanitarian aid is invested in education, with just a fraction of this in early education, said Sherrie Rollins Westin, the president of Sesame Workshop,
1420
leader’s call came in contrast to comments by the Bank of England governor, Andrew Bailey, who warned this month that wage rises would fuel inflation, saying the UK needed to see “restraint
1421
taskforce and a professor of immunology at the University of Surrey, said there was not yet enough information to explain why vaccination should lead to an improvement in people’s symptoms.
1422
residents
the protests would evolve into a sustained presence in the city, with a fully operational camp.
But something special is here and it’s really fired people up.
1423
Protection


However, judges dismissed the claim by the Good Law Project.
.
They said an unfair policy was being challenged.


Coppel said people “less likely to be known or connected to decision-makers” were put a disadvantage.


He also said the government was failing to offer “remuneration for high-level full
administration
1424
he replied
During the interview Djokovic said he is not against vaccination in general even though he declined himself.
Serb was ultimately
1425
According to sources speaking to the Guardian last week the Treasury is looking at a number of options to cut spending, with the provision of free lateral flow tests to people without symptoms expected to end.
Lawrence Young
1426
The truckers are also a minority in their profession.
”In New Zealand, a convoy of roughly 1,000 protesters that converged
Grant Duncan
1427
Food and treats: £15 a month.


The biggest expense has been paying for a cat sitter to cover trips away.


Total monthly cost: about £18 a rabbit.
1428
stress that reference numbers provided on these occasions to activists, who post footage on social media, do not mean there are investigations.
1429
Earlier this week, Scotland Yard explained its approach and the role the questionnaire would play.
In most cases contact is being made via email.
1430
”

The prime minister also promised Joe Biden quick action to end a crisis that has disrupted North America’s auto industry.
closures
Canada
1431
But Friday, the FDA reversed course and said it had become clear it needed to wait for data on how well that third shot works for this age group.
1432
In Belgium the price of an antigen self
However, a month later, free tests were reintroduced as authorities struggled to curb rapidly rising infection rates.
1433
have warned that the end of the “puppy mania” that seized so many people in lockdown could mean dangerous times are ahead for countless young dogs.
1434
The game is changing now.
Why would we not?
primarily


So far as I can tell, this means targets and paperwork.
It will take months for any new cash to come through.
1435
“Africa has been deprived of vaccines but also of the ability to
”

He added: “The scale of this inequality is so great that I’m not sure the world will ever forgive us for failing
1436
.


He said he would not “visit Durham again while there is a single Covid
”

The university resumed
face learning has since returned.
Arts
1437
they


With the Commons about to go into recess for 10 days, Johnson’s spokesperson said on Thursday that he had not yet received an official
1438
Some have suggested that the much younger age profile across countries on the continent may have contributed, but a consensus is coalescing around significant undercounting
1439
a rare occurrence for parking wardens, who are not always viewed with universal affection by residents.


The council had received “a heavy amount
1440
by those contacted
However, the Met later issued a statement saying it would reexamine the event in the light of the new picture.
previously
1441
Meanwhile, analysis of samples from the pet shop worker and infected customer suggested that their viruses were closely related to the hamster viruses, but that they were unlikely to have transmitted the infection to each other.
1442
In real life, however, there is Vladimir Putin and his confusingly massive white table.


He is not alone among world leaders when it comes to showy furnishings.
1443
Italian
a rival hamlet
But just one lucky village


“€20m for one village
”

Maranola, a hub for luthiers and other artisans, was also among the losers.
1444
”

Virginia isn’t alone in attempting to roll back precautions against Covid, as Omicron
such
persist among marginalized groups, Sosin said.
1445
For most artists, the digital environment did not provide enough income


The Covid pandemic may also have taken a disproportionate toll on female artists and cultural professionals.
1446
Protesters against Covid
drink
prominent Republican
It was initially called a protest, but when people use the word ‘occupation’ that really resonates
1447
Sir James Mackey, the chief executive of Northumbria NHS trust, has played a leading role in formulating the plan and suggesting changes to help hospitals provide quicker care.
1448
Joining Canada Unity is a motley crew of anti-vaccine and rightwing activists.


Police have increasingly laid fines and charges for
mischief
1449
They conceded there had been issues with a waste contractor, but said these were now solved and
They denied equipment shortages and said it was normal
1450
interview Javid denied he was at loggerheads with the chancellor, Rishi Sunak.


Half a million people in England with suspected cancer will have to wait longer than the supposed two
1451
Although referrals went down, demand increased, with one in six children suffering from a probable mental health condition, up from one in nine in 2017.
1452
The mood has turned further against Johnson in recent days after he criticised Sir Keir


The allegation appears to have roots in the far right’s obsession with the unfounded
1453
Fifty members of Iran’s 290-seat parliament have contracted Covid, a senior MP said,


Iran has seen a surge in cases after a brief respite following
1454
Radio 4’s Today where she proceeded to mix up the names of Tory MPs Martin and Matt Vickers.
”

Meanwhile, in an interview with Sky News, she insisted
1455
The culture secretary, Nadine Dorries, has rejected calls for Boris Johnson to resign in order to restore trust after the “partygate” scandal, claiming that the “vast majority” of the party were behind the prime minister.
1456
The country’s daily number of cases has risen to more than 100,000 in recent weeks, which officials have attributed to the highly contagious Omicron variant.
1457
“With a heavy heart” he said he had submitted a letter of no confidence.
But he later said he wanted to wait for details of Sue Gray’s report before submitting a letter of no confidence.
1458
a government support grant, he was poring over the regulations trying to establish whether busking was allowed.“During the 18 months of restrictions, nearly every musician was out of work.
1459
Police have a photograph of Boris


It was reported that the picture was taken by the prime minister’s official


Sources told the Mirror that Johnson and Sunak were surrounded
1460
pathogens”, they have said, and protecting nature is vital





The action recommended includes a global project to identify wildlife viruses
1461
With reinfections


According to UKHSA data for England, at present, possible reinfections account for about 10% of new cases reported each week.
1462
Peter Openshaw, theme lead for infection at Imperial College London, did not expect vaccines to be successful

As a scientist you relish having
1463
In October 2020, Paterson appeared to send Hancock a message saying the Guardian “yet again ran the story that you only gave Randox the testing contract because I am a paid consultant.
1464
The increase may be an undercount as there has also been a 31% slump in the number of referrals from schools
the restrictions on school attendance
1465
Tensions in societies around the world over the current
less rosy but we should be absolutely prepared for,” he said.
”

Farrar also warned that he has deep
1466
The situation in many countries had improved since then, he said, but “the knock-on effect of this disruption will be felt for years” and any respite from the pandemic must be used immediately to reduce backlogs for chronic care services.
1467
While she registered a temperature of 100F and
Ed Yong interviewed several
“Their work was used to better understand illness in patients that were younger and previously in good health,” she said.
1468
and
The masks are designed to be worn under a regular mask that covers the mouth, which can be removed when dining out or drinking with other people.
pic.twitter.com/p58WrYGFLe — 무슨 일이 일어나고 있나요?
1469
The team are expected to publish further findings giving a unique window into the earliest phase of the immune response, during the first hours and days after encountering the virus.
1470
kids
” She noted that researchers could change what they are examining in the trial — looking at
infections
Misinformation about
complications
1471
Shielders are feeling abandoned.
on my fingers
But now masks are gone and people aren’t being careful, so I’ve been forced back inside.
and
1472
”

After taking up the issue with a health worker posted in his locality, Hari said he was told that the local facility was not responsible and that his father “should have turned up for vaccination on time”.
1473
for a gradual opening up to tourists and other people from overseas.


For now, Kyoto’s tourist economy is dependent on domestic visitors, whose presence ebbs
1474
on Wednesday that a pay freeze, soaring workload and a mental health and wellbeing crisis are acting as deterrents to the next generation of headteachers.
Workload has soared
”

A recent NAHT
1475
Nevertheless, the researchers pointed out that people who have suffered childhood trauma were “known to have greater health risks across the life
1476
the redacted report revealed


The revelation places


A government insider suggested the gathering was at the more serious end of the spectrum of events investigated by Gray, a senior civil servant.
1477
The concern was that lockdown and other measures had not only reduced coronavirus infection levels, but also the global circulation of influenza.
1478
Once there, he lay on a bed in a corridor, undiagnosed, for three days suffering from septicaemia.


“We’re still sore, we’re still feeling angry.
1479
Health officials say that in the coming weeks, all trial data will be sent to the World Health Organization, as they request export approvals.
1480
-Brodie is on the point of becoming a full
to musicians thrown out of work and artistic directors scrambling to keep major
”

What’s needed is structural
1481
”

Mark Harper, another Tory MP who was once in charge of party discipline, said many people had questioned Johnson’s “honesty, integrity and fitness to hold that office”.
1482
Several Tory MPs opposed to the prime minister’s continued leadership said they were witnessing “death by 1,000 cuts” and questioned why more of their colleagues were not submitting letters of no confidence.
1483
on Monday evening, Javid insisted that mandatory vaccination was the “right policy at the right time”, given it was conceived last year, when Delta was the dominant variant of coronavirus.
1484
mRNA vaccines


Tedder said: “About one in five people who get Covid do not generate a useful immune response, and those who do gain a valuable ‘booster’ effect if they are subsequently vaccinated
1485
10 spokesperson said: “Given the police have said they are investigating a number of events, it would not be appropriate to comment further while the Met’
1486
No
”

Conclusion: “Significant learning must be addressed immediately”

Gray says the gatherings she looked at were spread over a 20-month period
1487
Before Christmas 2020: defence adviser leaving event

The Mirror alleged that the PM gave a speech at a leaving event for his then defence adviser
1488
Formula One
F1
Despite the continued uncertainty due to the pandemic, F1 organisers are hopeful the 2022 calendar will not have to be amended.
1489
Johnson’s image has always been carefully controlled.


That bunker mentality is expected to continue this week, as Downing Street plans
previous prime ministers
1490
Johnson’s official spokesperson said all that Gray sent would be published in full, but declined to say whether her full findings would be released once any
1491
As yet the Met will not say which parties are under investigation.


Rules on what information could be released by police about those who were subject to investigation came
1492
guests “highly credentialed … people [with] an opinion that’s different from the mainstream narrative.
barely
”

He also apologised to Spotify.
1493
Now Ngwerume makes sculptures from his home studio.
”

Covid cut through everything that divides humanity David Ngwerume

He’s also created a sculpture called
1494
Users who break the rule could see their content removed from the platform and repeat offenders could be suspended or banned.
misinformation about
1495
cases have already peaked in some countries, scientists are now tracking


As with other variants, an infection with BA.2 can be detected
the
1496
It means Portugal will have a stable government to oversee
Costa has won plaudits for turning around Portugal’s post-crisis economy, reversing unpopular austerity
1497
Beijing


While the number of cases is low compared to other countries in the region, China has doubled down on its “zero
quarantine
hotel
.
1498
The purchase price for these items was £458m.”

Chamberlain said the disclosures showed that “the government is burning a hole in the pocket of the taxpayer through its wastage of
1499
The prime minister is expected to travel to Ukraine
-awaited levelling up white paper on Wednesday as a show of purpose to his restive MPs.


The former adviser told
York magazine
1500
UK


Describing the situation as “immoral”, Chakrabarti said: “We are failing because of insufficient sharing of our vaccine supply and not allowing generic vaccine production in the global south.
1501
things they loved
estimates that more than 500,000 people in the UK have been suffering Covid symptoms for more than a year.
When I got home
1502
UK


In recent weeks, Johnson has argued that the UK remains the fastest-growing economy, but only by focusing on a particular annual figure.
1503
The prime minister said Bhutan remained committed to completely eliminating the disease and that the nation could not afford “to lose our people to something that is preventable”.
1504
“If you are entirely working from home it’s very easy to have all your conversations being completely purpose
”

How to do small talk

1.
1505
Macdonald was among those who felt that the Met’s legal team must have signed off the term in its
that the investigation was solely in “FPN territory”.
1506
infections rose
infections are unlikely to leak out to the public, he said.
-tolerance Covid-19 policy has all but shut the country’s border to international arrivals.
1507
“We’re going to see hundreds of thousands of young people leaving school this year having had next to no additional
”

She says Labour would be different.
1508
When the pandemic hit, they were instantly


The next wave of research, exploring how the same children have fared since nurseries reopened, is still being conducted and results are not expected until spring.
Megan
1509
According to
Dr Emily Fraser
“It does suggest the virus is causing some kind of persistent abnormality within
said the findings highlighted the need for those
1510
Earlier, Labour had called for the full report to be published.
the Guardian
He said he was “struggling to understand why this report would impede
He told the Guardian: “
1511
sources told the Guardian that Perrottet was playing the same game at a higher level.


Their offices are also said to enjoy a more consultative relationship.
NSW
1512
Its transparent medical mask is touted as an alternative to surgical masks and contains antimicrobial and anti-fogging elements.
UVC
FFP2 masks


Air purifiers have long been used in hospital operating theatres
Although they have been shown to reduce the amount of virus in the air
homes.
1513
January 27, 2022

He later shared a message that he said came “from someone who works for a cabinet minister.
from someone who works in parliament, read: “
1514
wave forced ministers
However, sources familiar with the review process say that even that date could now slip, given the chaos in Westminster.
1515
Asked about the health concerns of inviting unvaccinated individuals into


The decision to seek out the unvaccinated comes amid ongoing debate about what BBC
1516
“With the buses, going out is easy,” he told the Guardian.
For two weeks before
Covid, but he is worried about the added complexities and influx of people.
1517
president, Ursula von der Leyen, to Pfizer’s CEO has found the EU’s executive arm guilty of “maladministration”.


She said: “
Berlin
defence
1518
John Blissett, the town’s former mayor, said the controversy had “put us on the map”.


Barnard Castle is among a number of smaller historic attractions
1519
rule


Despite anticipation reaching fever pitch earlier this week that the report on which the prime minister’s premiership
Street parties
1520
visits


The limit on visitors to care homes will be lifted.
Very high levels of protection are also seen for Moderna boosters.


The DHSC says: “
to prevent most contact
1521
.
Not both.
.
Between 2010 and 2020, Spotify’s share of the US music market
,
Not both.
We
regret
.
The comment was “incorrect”, said Fauci.
1522
has previously indicated that testing supplies will improve in the coming weeks, with 16m tests expected to arrive at pharmacies before the end of January.
1523
despite


Because Gray is working with the Cabinet Office’s propriety and ethics team, No 10 has been unable to provide any updates on the report’s status besides confirming it has not yet been sent the final version.
1524
However, the airline said that customers looked to rebook, rather than cancel, which will help boost its performance this year.
three months
1525
Since the pandemic, Rogan, who has legions of devoted followers, has repeatedly spread misleading


The letter highlighted a highly controversial
Robert Malone
1526
The project’s website bills it as “by far the largest urbanization and settlement project in South America”, describing the colony as a refuge from “socialist trends of current economic and political situations worldwide”
1527
Substack should immediately stop profiting from medical misinformation that can seriously harm readers.
mRNA vaccines
could
misinformation
.
1528
The move
“The situation is manageable,” said the virologist Steven Van Gucht.


He cautioned, however, that it was still too early to consider Covid endemic.
1529
– video

While Johnson refused to discuss either the police inquiry,
Frankly
How much damage are the prime minister and his cabinet prepared to do to save his skin?
1530
More than 800 lives may have been saved across Europe thanks to better air
of the study, said: “The lockdown during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic created immense
1531
protesters shouting
1 News


Ardern said on Tuesday that being subject to these kinds of incidents was part of the job.


But some have strongly resisted either
1532
The police investigation into Downing


The prime minister’s ex-chief adviser, Dominic Cummings, had


Cummings has said he will do an open question
1533
Johnson’s seeming lack of regret irks Head most.


“I found myself just disgusted and traumatised by the sheer number of people who were dying,” Welsh said.
1534
.
that predicts Germany’s “entire system” will collapse due to critical infrastructure being disabled by quarantine measures.
Identitarians
1535
The premier, Mark McGowan, said the delay in border reopening was to give people more time to get their booster shot.
cases
and
diseases
1536
– video

Another hope is that early identification of long Covid patients
cases still high, she added, many more people were at risk of developing long-term symptoms.
1537
The other outlier is Romania
In western


According to the OSF, between January and May 2021, 8,813 people
In May 2021, only one in five people over 65 had been vaccinated.
1538
Classroom closures continue to affect more than 635 million children globally, with younger and more marginalised children facing the greatest loss in learning
1539
”

It comes as whips have been warned that Johnson is facing the possibility of losing a vote of no confidence amid growing anger about the multiplying revelations.
1540
”

Pickles said there was “reasonable concern that [Brine’s] direct involvement with the then minister for Covid vaccine deployment during
”
1541
On the day of the alleged birthday party, Downing Street thanked the public on Twitter for “following the rules and playing their part”, adding: “
1542
“It is clear that government needs to improve on its identification, quantification and recovery of fraudulent loans within the scheme,” Gareth Davies, the head of the NAO, said in his report.
1543
Tedros also cautioned that conditions remained ideal for more variants to emerge.


“Eighty-five percent of the population of Africa is yet to receive a single dose of vaccine.
1544
100% of past performance, but most of them will, with training, get back to a point where their reduced sense of smell will not affect their lives.
1545
Beijing’s city government has introduced measures to contain a recent outbreak of Covid-19


In Fengtai, some nurseries have told parents that children who have not been vaccinated
1546
Canada Post initially suggested wearing a cloth mask over his N95 mask, but later determined federal requirements meant Gallagher could wear only the standard


“The company fully supports these
1547
Index experienced a decline


“My office has not been able


“Jury trials have been stalled in many of our member states and territories, due mostly to our inability
1548
Data have shown multi-layered safety approaches ensure that “school is not an independent driver of the rate” of infection, said Bode.
Omicron
1549
We’ve not seen a scenario in Africa where people are dying on the streets.
have been infected in Africa, but it has not translated into many deaths.
The promissory
1550
and shopping centres and nightclubs
The Conservative MP for Gravesham, Adam Holloway, praised the “fabulous” initiative to boost the rollout.
1551
Martin Vickers, Conservative MP for Cleethorpes since 2010, last week told constituents that “disciplinary actions, and possibly prosecutions, should follow”.
1552
Saturday’s figures followed 23 cases reported on Friday, in Taoyuan and Kaohsiung.
In nearby Hong Kong authorities found at least 75 community cases at a residential block
1553
to join his wife, whom he has not seen since she visited Argentina last April.


The latest measures
The only exception
politicians
embassies
1554
Irishman who refused to wear


He appeared before a judge in New York a week later and was charged with “intentionally assaulting and intimidating a member of a flight crew”
1555
“Spring is coming, and I don’t know if I’ve ever looked forward to one as much as I’m looking to this one,” he added.


The Taoiseach has said that the pandemic is not over and people
1556
investigation


Gray’s findings will next week be handed to the prime minister, who commissioned the inquiry.
No 10 staff, or the prime minister if it relates
1557
The findings will instead be statements of fact about what happened, while leaving the matter of any disciplinary action to the civil service and the prime minister.
1558
Italian
parliamentarians who have Covid-19 may be allowed to cast their ballots for Italy’s new president from a car park.
palace
car park
”
1559
cases in the UK hit a record high and with daily deaths higher now than when the measures were introduced?
others may fear things are moving too quickly.
1560
Downing


Emin said she wanted it taken down as she felt a neon work was associated with a party atmosphere, and those in No 1o did not need “any encouragement
1561
“We’ve had the same rules in place for ages and they need to change them every so often, to look like they know what they’re doing.
” asked
”
1562
questions over how sustainable its elimination strategy is.





“The health system will be under further immense pressure once Omicron


In the
1563
speculation
cease next week.


“This plan has worked and the data shows that Omicron is in retreat,” he said.
rules
,
– video

Mary Bousted
1564
to his unvaccinated status, bought an 80% stake in QuantBioRes in 2020.
civil unrest
– video

The company is developing a peptide, which inhibits
1565
A Czech folk singer died


“She decided to continue to live
So now there will be theatre, sauna, a concert … and an urgent trip to the sea.
the death on a local anti-vax movement, saying its leaders had convinced his mother against vaccination and thus had “blood on their hands”.
1566
Frontline healthcare workers in hospitals and nursing homes are also to receive a €1,000 (£830) tax
Imelda May
Another individual
Organisation
1567
Recent research indicates that healthcare workers and first responders are displaying post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms like veterans who served in combat.
1568
For instance


Swindells said the number of people off work because they refused to get vaccinated


“These tests are the key to keeping people safe and reducing
1569
”

Putting on a good show with understudies, says Coleman, is all about team effort.
“You can’t look up, otherwise the reindeer’s head is going to stick up in the sky.
1570
MPs said colleagues increasingly believed Johnson was more likely than not to face a confidence ballot, probably after the Gray report is published.
1571
The use of “implicitly” ties into this narrative of a hard-working prime minister used to seeing colleagues regularly meet outside for work in the May sunshine and automatically assuming this post-6pm gathering, even with bring-your-own-booze drinks, must be the same thing.
1572
He did not envisage, a year on, that his recollection of that
She explained that her husband had died of cancer
I
1/8 —
bending
by
police
“
1573
, Cummings argued that Johnson’s defence of his attendance at the “bring your own booze” party in the Downing Street garden on
20 May 2020
No
1574
’”

When asked how he had apologised to Buckingham Palace over a separate event held for his departing communications chief, James Slack, now deputy editor of the Sun, Johnson took several deep breaths before saying: “I deeply and
1575
”

In a statement, it added: “We believe there is proper and widespread public interest in the extent to which the law restrains public servants from awarding valuable public contracts to their friends without adequate safeguards to protect against the risk of bias.
1576
Delhi
to have a wedding without pandemic restrictions.
”

Vashisht has decided she cannot uninvite 630 guests.
“Who knows when this wave will end?
1577
”

He claimed Reynolds had checked with Johnson whether the party should go ahead, the prime minister agreed it should and they both went to the party.
1578
The commissioner confirmed that the investigation would be for “alleged involvement in procuring
for Barrowman and the company also told the Guardian that: “Neither
1579
Downing
”

The spokesperson pointed out that by the time the guidance against travelling to second homes came in on 22 March, “the prime minister and his wife were already based in Chequers, acting in line with clinical guidance”.
1580
A photo of the celebration in June 2020 showed about 20 officials drinking Moët & Chandon champagne, without wearing masks or social distancing.
1581
Due to staff sickness


The consultant

My sleep deprivation was affecting my daily work and I didn’t realise it until a near miss happened.
1582
Another said widespread staff shortages meant “mistakes are more frequent by the end of the day”.
felt
At a time of considerable staff absence
1583
In Zhuhai city, authorities have ordered residents to undergo three rounds of testing, with their electronic health codes
All tourist attractions
1584
Parents who offer to donate air filters that limit Covid
CO 2 monitors and
”

The DfE said: “Air cleaning units are not needed in the vast majority of classrooms
1585
The ILO said the impact of the pandemic on employment was “significantly” greater than
on Twitter at @BusinessDesk



“There can be no real recovery from this pandemic without a broad
1586
Resurrections and
Dune
it makes sense that fashion originally popularised by military use would see a resurgence.
Wall* are articulating these emotional states.
1587
people
”

And it’s not all clear if recovering from Omicron would protect against future variants.
Delta


The US has record
But that’s not very common, experts said.


Does that mean the types of complications caused by Covid are changing?
”Do vaccines still help against Omicron?
1588
The hospital has seen a near four
Swindlehurst
When this wave has passed, there will be no time to rest.
Some will require support for years.
1589
sector workers last month, as the Omicron variant raged across the country.
spokesperson
support in place for workers who need to self-isolate
1590
in all different spheres and meanings,” said Prada, emphasising the idea of the importance of formal work and the wardrobe she imagines represents it.
-Sangster,
1591
In his column in the Sunday Times, Dominic Lawson claimed that Johnson was clearly warned in advance, twice, that the 20 May event was party taking place against the rules.
1592
on Wednesday happened because an invitation was sent to 100 people saying ‘let’s have some socially distant drinks in the garden and bring your own booze’.
1593
Management
”

“In humanitarian emergencies, one of the biggest things we do is make sure people have a sense of control and agency,” says Nemiro.
1594
Oliver
Dowden
No


In response, Dowden said he knew how people had suffered.



Then he admitted he had been at the 20 May event, and he told
1595
“However, none of these repurposed antivirals have worked,” added Fletcher, who is also a member of the UK Agile trial
So we need to show that antivirals still have real benefits for these people.
1596
”

Jolyon Maugham, director of the Good Law Project, a non-profit organisation that campaigns on legal issues, said the investigation into the parties should now be led by the police.
1597
Johnson
No 10
BBC
No
.
they
“The prime minister would be poorly served in judging the final report himself, as it is very important for him and the high office holds that the outcome of this process has credibility and cannot be brought into question.
programmes
They saw the falling poll ratings but never saw what that meant for them directly and it’s this insecurity
1598
With every revelation, the nation recalls what it was doing on those nights that were filled with dancing for the Downing Street set.
I
No
1599
“Vaccines are getting into arms.
Spencer
mask
cases
300% increase


There also 250 staff members who are unable to work because they are isolating due to the virus, he said.


But like other epidemiologists, Wendelboe said he is not ready to declare that we won’t see another surge like Omicron
1600
Reservations


“Anything where there are high labour costs – and that’s our industry
We’re seeing policy changes that are trying to ease restrictions.
1601
Johnson has continued to face criticism, including from those on his frontbench, after admitting to attending a “bring your own booze” garden party in No 10 on 20 May 2020, which he says he understood to be a “work event”.
1602
She said she and her family were “devastated” by the death of her baby, and urged everyone eligible to take up the offer of jabs.
Surveillance
,
1603
The first Omicron


In the past few weeks, dozens of domestic and international flights have been suspended to control the spread of the disease.
1604
new Covid-19 cases
”

He did not elaborate on what restrictions local authorities might impose.
Confirmed
have said infection rates could peak in February.
1605
”

“We are witnessing the broken spectacle of a prime minister mired in deceit and deception, unable to lead,” Starmer said, adding that it was “very important that the Tory party does what it needs to do and gets rid of him”.
1606
These are some of the Tories who have strongly criticised Johnson, with five publicly urging him to quit.
He said:

I
The prime minister’s position is untenable.
1607
we have worked to make quality vaccines and pharmaceutical products accessible to families around the world.
It has now become a reality.
”
1608
China reported 165 new cases on Saturday, down from 201 a day earlier.
concerns related to supply shortages for N95s”.
The Omicron
.
22,927,203
1609
No 10 held its Christmas party.



.
”

Terry Fox, leader of Sheffield city council, said: “To be honest I need to express my deep disappointment – people
1610
Omicron


“We’ve been letting a different year group back into the school each day and doing on-site testing.


“Workload is a huge problem at the moment.
1611
The thought of having to make a public apology to the monarch like the one that Johnson made
prime minister Stanley Baldwin told the king to his face that the government would resign
1612
However, at the 7 January meeting, scientists suggested that hospitals could remain under pressure for some time because prevalence in older people is high and growing rapidly, with hospital
Statistics
1613
visa
Zoran Gojkovic added: “I defend his free will not to get vaccinated.
Belgrade
I am angry
Belgrade
a healthy Novak supposedly to save lives”.
1614
on the country this spring and believe that it would be better to keep Johnson in place for a while longer to “suck up that unpopularity”, said one MP.
1615
Angela Rayner, this week that the government was “in mediation” with the company.
Farrell ruling
”

He said the face masks
supplied
by PPE
t
1616
Police units in six cities were sent the FFP2 masks from the office of Italy’s Covid-19 emergency commissioner, Francesco Paolo Figliuolo.
1617
Tortoise reported that the prime minister travelled between his two residences until 27 March, despite ordering a full lockdown on 23 March.
1618
claims, including several falsehoods about Covid-19 vaccines and an unfounded
”

The letter further asserts that Malone is “one of two recent JRE
1619
Kidcare nursery and primary school in the suburb of Najjera is now a depot for beverages.
The building owner says she “no longer wants school business
1620
Windsor Castle on Saturday 17 April, the day after two leaving dos were
to condemn the allegations after the wealth of sacrifices made for the funeral to go ahead.
1621
“I wish to apologise unreservedly for the anger and hurt caused,” Slack said in a statement.
About 30 people attended the events in total, witnesses told
1622
Twenty new “pandemic billionaires” have been created in Asia thanks to the international response to Covid-19, while 140 million people
poverty
1623
in Zambia
Extreme weather, hunger and political unrest were among the challenges faced by Burundians.


Niger

Niger is deeply vulnerable
US.
1624
The church apologised on
NSW


“No doubt it will also top off with a super-spreader [event],” Lambie told Channel Nine’s Today show
and
”
1625
The leading Brexiter, who campaigned alongside
Johnson during the referendum


The other leaving event was for one of Johnson’s personal photographers, the paper said.
1626
Previously, in 2017, she was invited to investigate Damian Green, the first secretary of state and de facto deputy to Theresa May.
responsibility
1627
An inquiry into lockdown
Sources said the inquiry’s staff believe that No 10’s structures are “farcical”.


“I don’t accept that he’s in the wrong,” Dorries told Sky News.
1628
He said other studies had found that covering the left or right half of a face also made people look more attractive, partly because the brain fills in the missing gaps and exaggerates
1629
” Johnson’s “remorseful confessions” and “submissive contrition” would do little to change things


“But that won’t be easy,” the paper said.
1630
The positive


Johnson usually films a brief, pooled broadcast interview on visits such as the one scheduled for Thursday, and would inevitably
1631
Prof Jonathan Van



Downing Street press briefing, December 2020

The train has now slowed down safely.
It has now stopped in the station.
1632
the Scottish Conservative leader and flag-carrier for the rebellion against Boris Johnson, is “a lightweight figure” of little consequence.
Ross was serially disloyal, Rees-Mogg implied;
Scottish
1633
Johnson told MPs
BBC
spokesperson


She said Johnson “should not be confident that he will survive” the controversy over the Downing Street party.
1634
infections
However, the researchers said the huge fall in admissions meant there should be a further evaluation of interventions that could be continued, especially during winter months, to minimise the burden on health systems and protect vulnerable children.
1635
The court in the eastern province of Alicante ruled late on Tuesday that the region of Valencia failed to protect the health of its doctors during the first three months of the pandemic.
1636
, saying they had failed to declare that he had travelled outside Serbia
” Brnabić told the BBC, adding that if the player had broken the rules she would have to consult “relevant authorities”.
1637
He worked in the City before entering politics and takes a markedly different economic approach to Johnson, favouring lower taxes and tougher public spending restraint.
1638
in his own party and on the opposition benches
I
Adam Wagner, a lawyer who specialises in lockdown laws, said Johnson’s statement had been carefully constructed
1639
questions on the issue on Tuesday, the prime minister admitted he had been to the event for 25 minutes.
I


“I will of course come back to this house and make a statement.
1640
”

In the exchanges after the statement in the Commons, Starmer ridiculed Johnson’s version of events, calling it “the pathetic spectacle of a man who has run out of road”.
1641
Boris Johnson is facing increasing pressure
”

Nigel Mills, MP for Amber Valley:

I can’t see how anybody who organised a party or willingly chose to
those
1642
“Omicron more than any other variant has changed the biology of the infection,” explains
sitting
institutions are training their own dogs to detect Covid, such as the Freetown
1643
Mills
s
would
”

The Labour leader, Keir
by the Guardian
” She added that the Metropolitan police “could and should” investigate the event.
1644
Health
Organization
experts


“Covid-19 vaccines
”

The vaccine could be ready to distribute by June, Bourla added in an interview with CNBC.
1645
after it emerged


Ross said he could no longer back the prime minister if he was found to have attended the event and then failed to stand down.
No
1646
I wept.
-Horsfall 💙 (@sammypops) January 10, 2022

Author Michael Rosen


Photo of my local park taken in June 2020.
sit on a park bench out side.
1647
The company’s at
the range of services: “I
kits “at cost” for $14.
that testing will become more accessible later this month as cases peak.
1648
Ventilation, though still worthwhile, is likely to have a lesser impact.
to actually simulate what happens to the aerosol during
Improved ventilation will also help
1649
As wakes were not permitted at the time, the family “returned alone to [their] house to continue to grieve
My husband was doing all the baby duties.
1650
She has contacted several former members of staff for evidence.


One admirer of Gray’s work said she would not stand for delays or attempts to influence her inquiry.
1651
“She wanted to inspire other people to become better versions of themselves,” Lutu said.
With the help of a family doctor, he was admitted to hospital and put on a drip.
1652
Kluge said the variant had been reported in 50 of the Europe region’s 53 states and was becoming dominant in western Europe.
European governments
1653
The paymaster general, Michael Ellis, was sent to the House of Commons to answer
official spokesperson told journalists


“This line won’t survive 48 hrs.
1654
“Failure to act on climate change could shrink global GDP
”

The report said the economic fallout from the pandemic was adding to already existing pressures
1655
House of Commons

After the Allegra Stratton video is released by ITV News:

“I apologise for the impression
Street parties:

“I can tell you once again that I certainly broke
1656
Also in Henan, Zhengzhou city has closed schools and kindergartens and barred in-restaurant dining, while


In Hong Kong, where a relatively small number of Omicron
1657
for standards should consider investigating the matter to establish whether any rules have been broken
Previously they have said she had no interest in PPE
1658
The police are now investigating.


The prime minister is believed to have attended the No 10 garden party on 20 May 2020 along with
No
drinks
1659
No 10 has offered for each new scandal, and it leaves the prime minister most personally exposed.
Whitehall source said he was hoping to return to the Middle East.
1660
to back a change if recommended by scientists, with others including Johnson and Javid following
Openshaw said the study was too small to say
1661
”

Please record the awkward moment when you tell them you’ve spent most of your career campaigning to have people from Eastern Europe deported.
-style immigration system, you have to vote to LeaveEU.
1662
Children’s rights groups had criticised the extreme length of the shutdown, warning that closures had far-reaching consequences for learning and put vulnerable students at higher risk of child marriage or forced labour.
1663
”

The debate arose after the US shifted its isolation requirements to five days after a positive test.
I


Having
Tests showed that people
1664
“The provision to allow greater flexibility in balancing the need to reduce transmission against the detrimental loss of workforce is an appropriate measure.
those people
that


“There additional bookings coming online every day and there will be more and more opportunities over the weeks ahead.
1665
Hunt has claimed there will be 3m vaccine doses available over January for the 2.3 million children who will be eligible
the vaccine will also be smaller.
1666
No 10 on 15 May, with staff drinking late into the evening after a press conference that day.
It also asked for the inquiry to examine the reports of No 10’s lockdown
1667
No
–
A source told the Guardian
Stratton all but confirmed the event had taken place by laughing it off as a “business meeting” but added: “
1668
As the Omicron wave recedes, the use of lateral flow tests needs to be justified as part of a wider public health policy.
cases
vaccination
1669
”

The Spanish data adds to previous research that has linked Omicron to an increase in reinfections.
Communicable
December
.
infection rate
1670
The education secretary has called for the UK to show the rest of the world how to move from pandemic to endemic Covid, as he suggested it would be helpful to cut
1671
A London hospital


The impact would depend on which areas the unvaccinated staff worked in, he said.
Steve James said he faced dismissal if he did not come forward for vaccination.
1672
Millions of people are being confined to their homes in Xi’an and Yuzhou, two other cities that are farther away but have larger outbreaks.
1673
Read our full statement here: https://t.co/2c4hrLB0dN. pic.twitter.com/gw0GjcHuYf — PEN America (@PENamerica)
and
was granted
furlough
35 days
1674
Serbian
Tennis


The Australian health minister, Greg Hunt, on Sunday said the investigation of Australian Open visas had been finalised and
1675
Greg Clark, the Tory chair of the Commons science and technology committee, said a fourth dose of vaccine should be considered for healthcare workers, adding: “The UK Health Security Agency found that the impact of a third dose against
1676
a month ago, pub landlord Scott Jones knew only a handful of people who had got Covid.
“With Omicron running riot, more and more are falling ill.
1677
Hundreds of people
rallied in Beirut
on people who are not inoculated or do not carry a negative PCR test.


Saturday’s protest
Many civil servants
1678
Djokovic remains the dominant
Meanwhile
Djokovic departs , so too will the cameras that had only briefly focused on the plight of the refugees.
1679
After a brief silence, Steve James, a consultant anaesthetist who has been working throughout the pandemic, replied: “I’m not happy about that.
1680
absences but the significant majority is made up of staff who are having to isolate because they
I offer reassurances


We are increasing our communication
1681
PCR
by self
The exception
and
have


In Wales, support payments are given out for self-reported tests without the need for a confirmatory PCR.
1682
Covid Recovery Group

Led by the former chief whip Mark Harper and the former Brexit minister Steve Baker, the CRG’s size and opposition to new Covid rules is essentially the reason why England has notably fewer restrictions than other UK nations.
1683
“It’s often said that with first past the post, coalitions exist within parties rather than between parties,” another MP said.
Conservatism and the
1684
”

The Australian government is now facing diplomatic spats on two fronts due to its handling of the affair.
Tennis
Association has misled us, which is annoying.
1685
Francisco’s Mission district is reportedly charging between $99 and $250 for rapid


A pack of two at-home rapid Covid tests should cost around $25.
1686
disease from Omicron


Latest figures show that, for the over-65s, protection against hospitalisation remains at about 90% three months
disease
1687
The Conservative peer Michelle Mone referred a business to the Cabinet Office for potential multimillion
”

Mone referred PPE
PPE
Office spokesperson
1688
infection
the UK government had announced
Others believe that the pandemic will pave the way for LFTs for a wider range of respiratory viruses.
1689
The inquiry, now led by Cabinet
Tory


Robert Hayward, a Tory peer and elections expert, said all eyes will be on whether the Tories can hang
1690
“Severe shortages of equipment and clothing can potentially affect operational readiness and, in the worst case, the safety of the soldier,” Eirik Sjohelle
1691
”

She said the lack of virtual meetings was a blow to the government’s “levelling up” agenda, making democratic participation more difficult for those with caring responsibilities and disabilities.
1692
“Because it’s a national emergency, it is my position that we can restrain” people who have not got their shots, Duterte said in a pre-recorded message on Thursday.
1693
The other 160 personnel, who have no medical training, will check in patients, ensure stocks are maintained and would also be “conducting basic checks”, the Ministry of Defence said.
patients in hospital
1694
London


Chris Hopson fears that hospitals outside the capital will not be as able
1/24
bring the UK total
in England between 27 December 2021
1695
for spreading “nonsense” on social media, while stressing that he does not support moves to overtly pressure people into getting vaccinated.
1696
The initial approval sparked public
but were refused, and he said Dahiya was allowed to become “collateral damage” of Australia’s policies but Djokovic
1697
”

The new measures oblige people over 50 who do not work to get vaccinated, while from 15 February, those who do have jobs will have to show a vaccine pass to enter the workplace, removing the option of taking a coronavirus test.
1698
The official deadline for completing a return is 31 January, after which a £100 late-filing penalty would be automatically imposed.
penalty
1699
The report warned against a target culture which could compromise quality and patient safety, and the efficacy of encouraging people to call 111 for urgent but non-life threatening medical need as no evaluation had been carried out.
1700
Hospitals are under increasing pressure because of the Omicron variant.
up the vaccine mandate last week, but the cabinet failed to agree on a measure and so the talks were postponed.
1701
At the hospital
is spread.


The numbers of patients we are treating now
in hospital
They’re the ones that are really busy and need extra staff.
1702
the Dutch public broadcaster NOS
The answers to many such specific questions could not be found on government information websites, he said.
1703
Keir


Starmer has been doing daily lateral flow tests and on Wednesday the result came back positive.


He also went into isolation in December 2020
1704
However, the government has been criticised for its failure to start rolling out booster shots quicker in the wake of omicron, which have been seen as crucial in other countries to preventing the spread and hospitalisation from the virus.
1705
Gray has a fearsome reputation as a “Whitehall enforcer” and her appointment to lead the probe was seen by many as making it less likely ministers would be able to evade scrutiny over the issue of potentially rule-breaking parties.
1706
”

The president, who said he wanted to run for a second term in presidential elections in April but would not make his decision public until “the health situation allows”, added that he was “not going to jail [
1707
the growth rate in numbers of Covid patients compared with London, which was previously worst hit by the Omicron variant surge.
.



depend
1708
NHS
hospitals


Analysis by Stephen Rocks of the Health Foundation thinktank shows that the UK has only 3.93 hospital doctors per 100,000 people
1709
absences and an “unprecedented”
These included Blackpool
Outbreaks of Covid in Blackpool had also resulted in more people being admitted
1710
Foreigners from 199 “orange” states will be allowed to enter the country from 9 January provided they are vaccinated or have recovered from Covid-19.
1711
”

Ratshipa loved playing chess and supported Chelsea football club.


“She was on her own and couldn’t be with the people who loved her,” said her granddaughter Nellya Serikova.
1712
Communist party officials in the northern city were removed from their posts over their “insufficient rigour in preventing and controlling the outbreak”.
1713
aims to reinforce official efforts, but in a rougher part of Khayelitsha a community has come together to confront local authorities.
in Europe
1714
In an email sent to schools on Sunday, the Department for Education (DfE) advised heads to deal with staff
don’t like the idea of having face masks in [
1715
In Germany, where federal states can set their


Not all European countries have followed suit: pupils in Swedish schools are not required to wear masks.
1716
However, ministers are expected to keep restrictions as they are, and to keep in place the plan B rules on areas such as mask use, Covid passports and
1717
hospitals
in Lincolnshire have declared a “critical incident” over “extreme and unprecedented” staff shortages.


The memo said the increasing numbers of Covid
1718
special education needs and disabilities].

“As pupils do not need to be kept in consistent groups, you may wish to consider combining classes.


The DfE announced that masks should be worn indoors
in education
1719
After Rajapaksa


The situation has got so bad that long queues have formed at the passport
However, as of November, available foreign currency reserves were just $1.6bn.
1720
The volume of charitable donations declined, however, falling from £9m in 2020
charity’s policy is to use the donations it receives from the Coates family business
1721
The issue is exacerbated because many patients can’t even get referred to NHS long
– he says these specialist medical houses are common in Austria.
1722
my biology teacher is teaching my son biology;
didn’t, but it was a birthday card addressed to me, with a 1980s postmark.
for creating quotidian drama, had died.
1723
The sad truth is that the little boy is me and I was so far off the pace everyone else
.


If you wear bright colours, you feel uplifted.
1724
Six studies
.
Prof
by researchers in the US, also found that mice with Omicron lost less weight and had a lower viral load.
“All lateral
and
1725
The department admitted businesses and public
UK
On Saturday, England on its own reported a record high daily total of 162,572 new cases.
1726
On Boxing Day
it was “inevitable that we will still see a big increase” in the number of people with Covid needing treatment over the next month, and warned that the pandemic was “still far from over”.
1727
”

This problem has worsened during the pandemic, with a lot more inexperienced owners around.
.
“In the summer, some people
paddling pools
1728
“Covid has affected young people a lot.


Keeley, a bar manager, also 26, said she feared Cardiff would be horribly quiet.
People will be wandering around the streets at midnight.
1729
Police have released an image of a woman wanted
He was arrested on suspicion of encouraging people to attack MPs’ offices earlier this month.
1730
immune
Discovery


The data also reveals the importance of Covid jabs, noting there is an 81% reduction in the risk of hospitalisation after
1731
-isolation period for vaccinated and unvaccinated people in England who have tested positive
Italy, too, has registered record infection numbers this week.
1732
The country is at the lowest of its five


“After two years, we now know this virus well,” he wrote.
Omicron
medical director Stephen Powis
1733
toilet


Fotieo addressed the concerns in the platform’s comments section, explaining that she received two negative PCR tests before boarding.
1734
the issue with the ACCC and on Thursday the health minister, Greg Hunt, said the government would take “strong, clear, swift action” if it uncovered evidence of price gouging.
1735
at sport stadiums


However, the government has urged people to exercise extreme caution in the run-up to New Year’s Eve, with the Omicron
to wear a mask for 90 minutes during this Omicron surge.
1736
”

Her friend Lisa Sanders, also from Surbiton, said: “I ordered some about a week ago and I’m still waiting for them to be delivered –
every
1737
The Welsh government announced on Thursday that it had lent an additional 4m lateral flow testing kits to England to help alleviate the supply squeeze across the border, bringing the total offered to 10m.

The National
1738
in hospital


However, pressure has been rising on the government to consider further cutting self


In a series of tweets, Hopson noted one consideration is high staff
1739
location
If this change becomes permanent, it will have lasting implications for transport companies and the city-centre service businesses
1740
However, test kits have repeatedly been unavailable online in recent days, and many pharmacies have complained of being unable to secure them.
1741
hope @ThamesVP get the evidence needed to bring these morons to justice



If you have any videos or info, call 101 or report online with ref 604 29/12/2021
1742
The overwhelming demand for tests in England follows record levels of infection since the arrival of the Omicron variant.
concerns about a lack of tests affecting staff
1743
Boris Johnson has urged people



ventilation and testing, and he urged people to take up the offer of a third dose.
Audit and Research
venues.
1744
His assistants, Albert Stuivenberg and Steve Round, will be in charge on matchday against City.


The Gunners were without a number of players during their 5
1745
gatherings
I
gatherings of 50 or more adults have been prohibited in Wales.
Welsh
the BBC


This month researchers estimated that UK parkrun
1746
-
widespread
-high infections, France stopped short of issuing a stay-at-home order but called on employers to make staff
hospitals
stressed
1747
1 defeat by Rob Cross on Thursday night.
Following Van Barneveld’s positive test, organisers insisted all necessary
”

The withdrawal of No 3 seed Van Gerwen will open
Wright
1748
Vaccine status should not be allowed to play any role as to who should receive intensive medical treatment or not,” said its director, Beate Rudolf.
1749
ago
and
Test negative
Federal rules don’t require people traveling within the US to do so.
Biden said the federal effort would not interfere.
1750
10
.
Vogel has missed the Lakers’ last four games, and Donovan is missing his second consecutive game when the Bulls visit Atlanta on Monday.
1751
The rest of the team I think has a great appreciation of the efforts of the strikers without the ball.
Japhet is a player who has a great sense of belonging,” Conte said.
1752
in hospital


The health secretary, Sajid Javid, said people should take steps themselves to protect others.
in England on Christmas Day
Eve
1753
The Premier League has had 15 games postponed so far due to Covid-19 outbreaks at various clubs.
“There are some players who didn’t make some training sessions ...
1754
Emergencies (Sage)
is
“Rules relieve people of responsibility for deciding what is the best thing to do in situations that are often complex.
1755
phototherapy
Glow
Djoue after studying engineering abroad, I saw an invasive
“It had halted fishing
”

Kouebatouka, a Colorado State University graduate who says
Oil spills are common industrial
The project has also provided employment for local people who collect
twice
daughter
1756
–


The BMA has written to every hospital


Surgical masks are “unsuitable” given the threat Covid poses, the BMA believes.


A DHSC
Updated
1757
waited


Poor weather in some areas also contributed to air travel problems.
-related electrical issue” forced a partial closure of Terminal 5, causing passengers to divert
Holiday
1758
However, cabinet ministers are still highly sceptical of further legal restrictions
new restrictions but is possible any vote could be retrospective, should the decision be taken later in the week.
That would mean an end


Taylor said that the service was facing a “double emergency” of sharply rising staff
1759
”

But he also suggested fourth
But


“If we need it I think our health system is prepared,”
I
”

Trump also backed vaccines in an
interview
1760
1 defeat by
Rob Cross at Alexandra Palace
-round tie and later provided a positive test.
regulations
the
will stay in quarantine in London.
1761
in England
I’m surprised it’s so busy – I thought I’d be the only one here,” she said.
My husband does the cooking so he’s at home preparing.
1762
Amazon vouchers are no longer available, but the ONS said this was not connected to any criticism of the online giant potentially benefiting from the scheme.
1763
I am writing from the past, so many things remain uncertain for me about Christmas 2021
ball
pint mug last week as I carried it upstairs, spilling tea everywhere.
1764
It remains to be seen how these different factors affect figures.


The problem is highlighted


Many scientists believe evidence is now suggesting
1765
they


The UK recorded 122,186
their attitudes against further restrictions and now want cabinet ministers to be vocal in their opposition.
1766
after arriving


Shapovalov said he is experiencing minor symptoms.


All players have to return negative tests 72 hours before flying to Australia.
1767
The scientists from the beginning say the most protection you can have is via hand sanitisers and [face masks].

“In Spain now it will be an
1768
“Producers are losing money hand over fist.
Last week, the production lost £22,000.
it does not pay out if actors or production staff catch Covid.
Arts and
1769
The frosts and hailstorms have always occurred and their ancestors knew how to face them,” he says.


“Peru is one of eight places in the world which is considered a centre of origin
1770
has shown that people can make good judgments themselves,” he added.
”

It comes after a further 122,186 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases were recorded in the UK as of 9am on Christmas Eve,
1771
-


Xi’an


Xi’an, which started a round of mass testing on Saturday, has announced no infections caused by the Omicron variant.
Nationwide
1772
RNA research has been going on for decades.
the origins of Sars-CoV-2 has been the big story.
An investigation into the origins of a disease is core scientific and medical business
1773
While not being able to spend Christmas with loved ones will be devastating for most, some people are turning to unique methods to keep the festive spirit alive.
1774
He wanted to make sure he did everything he could not to pass the virus on to his family and ensure they were able to have some normality over Christmas.
1775
-central Chinese city of Xi’an are facing
.
Officials say
The city has also launched various rounds of mass testing.
255 between 9 and 23
December
1776
“I am hoping that we will have more testing available to the public so that when these drugs do become available, the testing will not be a huge obstacle,” said Manian.
1777
Allowing for a day off to account for reduced vaccination rates over the holiday period, that would mean 1.65m jabs a day would need to be given to hit the target.
1778
but pointed out that many people were able to celebrate with more family members this year than last.


“For too many, there will be one less chair at the table for the Christmas meal.
1779
breaking get-togethers involving Downing Street last Christmas, Scriven, a senior doctor in Yorkshire, said: “We are really relying on people doing what experts
1780
of research published this week suggest that people infected with Omicron are much less likely to require hospitalisation.
That would also be very helpful
1781
entered the fraught festive period with his authority in tatters
the data, with experts continuing to warn that the sheer size of the Omicron wave could still put severe
1782
Their Thorp Arch training ground has been closed for two days this week.
Conte suggested that home and away ties for the semis should be scrapped.
1783
Evidence


Hopson argued that the new data did not mean the threat to the NHS had been lifted.


He said: “I think perhaps we can downgrade
1784
In a press statement, the Malawi Human Rights Commission said the directive violated the principle that medical interventions are a person’s free choice.
1785
Conduct (IOPC)


Mopac has said it is assessing the complaint to decide if further action is required.
The event is also among those being investigated by the senior
1786
You could become infectious after you take the test, which is why scientists
“Test results can sometimes remain positive for a period
LFTs
1787
Recent lab data


The pills are meant to be taken every 12 hours for five


Pfizer said it plans to file a new drug application with the FDA in 2022
1788
could
Some officials have said the delay in this was caused by Pfizer only applying to the MHRA after the EU’s European Medicines Agency (EMA)
1789
those vaccines
Ghebreyesus said on Wednesday there would be sufficient vaccine supplies in global circulation in the first quarter of 2022.
1790
The vendors, who had shut up shop for the day, say they deserve more than the 4% of the ticket price they currently get, arguing that 80 cents on a €20 ticket is not enough.
1791
Football
ESPN
England Patriots practice squad
As a result of the postponement, the Eagles would have just four days to prepare for another game.
1792
An executive at one hospital said that it was already sounding out staff who usually work in a purely administrative capacity about what roles they could take on if Omicron wreaks havoc.
1793
The country’s first suspected death from Omicron
Amid fierce debate, his cabinet has so far resisted major new internal restrictions such as limiting public
1794
Omicron is behaving in a way that is less severe,” said Prof Cheryl Cohen of the country’s National Institute for Communicable
Italy
extrapolated
1795
a video emerged of No 10 staff laughing and joking
I would put good money on his goal being a return to government.
A book summary
“So the uproar
1796
-up, especially as 10 matches have already been postponed because of Covid-19 and must be rescheduled and there is a danger that more will follow.
1797
events
– video

In Sweden, people are being urged to work from home if possible, along with tighter rules for social distancing and a requirement for seated-only service at bars, restaurants and larger public events.
1798
England needed certainty
flow tests on days six and seven, the government announced.
”

He did not rule out post-Christmas curbs being announced this week but unless
1799
”

AstraZeneca said: “Together with Oxford University, we have taken preliminary steps in producing an Omicron variant vaccine, in case it is needed, and will be informed by emerging data.
1800
It is not yet like the end days of Theresa May, where every cabinet decision could be seen through the prism of would-be successors positioning for the coming fight.
1801
NHS bosses were not given any notice of Johnson’s commitment.
Adding Northern Ireland and Wales leaves 13.8 million eligible people to go, a required rate of 1.4m a day.
1802
crowds in Scotland will be capped at just 500 people for three weeks from 26 December.
Football
took a swingeing cut with


“We have a fantastic product.
1803
-year timing of the announcement reflected the urgency of the need for the medicines.
quell the pandemic”.


“We must find a way to rapidly scale pill
1804
According to a government response to a pre-legal action letter from the Good Law Project, the decision to stop the lab processing tests then only happened on 12 October.
1805
The chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has announced a £1bn package of emergency financial support for businesses in response to the economic damage caused by the Omicron
1806
The spokesperson appeared to be referring to Saudi Arabia.


His death also highlights the diplomatic impasse in Yemen, marked by Saudi air attacks on Sana’a on Monday.
1807
In Germany, Der Spiegel asked how long Britain could last being governed “almost
”

El País said it was clear that Johnson’s “electoral magic has run out”.
1808
The emergency funding is also temporary


Centralia has also been losing a couple hundred students each year, at the cost of about $8,700 per kid.
1809
He said the country was in “the most difficult, most uncertain” period of the pandemic since March last year and that, although Omicron was spreading “unbelievably fast’”, there was great uncertainty about what impact
1810
Swans players have tested positive
cases
on Christmas Day in Melbourne,” Hockley told SEN on Tuesday.


Hockley has stressed the need to be vigilant, with two tours called off globally in recent months a result of Covid-19 cases.
members tested positive last week forcing their entire squad to isolate.
cases.
1811
Labour dismissed Downing Street’s explanation and said it amounted to evidence of law


In a sometimes confusing
.
the BBC
,
This was headed by
1812
shutdown Wednesday amid an increase of positive Covid-19 test results among players across the league, ESPN confirmed on Monday night.
Games are still scheduled
1813
health experts have warned the event was “Covid spreаding
on steroids”.
with fans in attendance
but Downing Street’s failure to apologise for a photograph showing him
1814
Their comments echoed the finding of study by Imperial College London, which said last week the risk of reinfection was more than five



,
1815
be made in coming days on rules to be brought in before New Year’s Eve.


Johnson said hospitalisations were rising “quite steeply” in London, where Omicron
1816
to Covid regulations had come into force allowing the first between-household contact since lockdown began.
Very few workplaces were open, and when this was the case, staff were urged
1817
A complication for the league is that under government guidelines unvaccinated players must isolate for 10 days if deemed a close
Aston Villa v
1818
I wouldn’t be able to visit her to help her recover and we knew


Hancock added that the social distancing rules were “there for everyone” and were “deadly serious”.
1819
According to a report by ITV last week, Reynolds had sent an email to Downing Street staff warning them
”

Q&A What were the Covid rules in England on 15 May 2020?
1820
”

Speaking earlier, Dominic Raab had argued the photo simply showed people “having a drink after a busy set of work meetings”, and that other workplaces would have acted
1821
”

As she will need to fly back to Australia after Christmas, the family’s self
If anyone tests positive, none of our plans work any more.
1822
No
Very few workplaces were open, and when this was the case, staff were urged


The Covid-19
—
having
a garden party.
pic.twitter.com/E88C7hwiz3
1823
The company plans to develop a vaccine specifically
It is similar to data discussed by the top US infectious disease expert, Dr Anthony Fauci.
1824
I’m afraid I don’t agree with his analysis.
”

Speaking earlier on Sky News, Raab said it was impossible to rule out further Covid restrictions before Christmas.
1825
hospitals


The reduction in usual care is likely to result in more patients seeking help in hospitals, despite best efforts.
But does he really?
1826
advisers warned that without tougher measures, hospitalisations across England could be set to peak at between 3,000 and 10,000


The chancellor flew
1827
Very few workplaces were open, and when this was the case, staff were urged
No 10 staff were allowed to be at their office, as national government staff were classified as key workers.
1828
Very few workplaces were open, and when this was the case, staff were urged
A small number of staff required to be in work remained in the Downing Street garden for part of the afternoon and evening.
1829
beds” that could be used for patients in need.
Stephen Powis


The strategy would allow patients “the same care they would [receive]


The UK broke
1830
Dutch


He added: “From a health perspective, I understand that something needs to be done, but then it is important


The Dutch government provides financial
1831
The first red flag came in late November when scientists
The upshot is that hospitalisation rates for boosted people could be four times higher with Omicron.
1832
Friday came weeks after he said he tested positive for coronavirus while in El Salvador
Van Werven said the next week the senator was recovering at a Florida hospital.
1833
Wolves


Thomas Tuchel’s side made the request after recording another three Covid cases in their latest round of testing.
of today’s match on the grounds of players’ health and safety,”
1834
Liverpool
”

The Covid-Smart project ran from December 2020
Buchan said that the results demonstrated that LFTs could be used to help keep the NHS functioning during the Omicron wave.
1835
things are bad, and drastic action is required to keep the worst consequences at bay.
Researchers injected mice with antibodies
Mice injected
1836
Doctors and nurses say they are deeply concerned at the number of seriously ill


He said: “We are not here to judge patients – we are here to look after them
1837
, saying the new restrictions were needed to protect lives and livelihoods from the resurgent virus.
”

In the UK, where confirmed daily cases soared
1838
Police officers suffered minor injuries during “scuffles” at an
the area at about 12.30pm


The protest had its critics online, however, with some
1839
could
It is why
Klopp
virtually
Klopp is a decision-maker who has not ducked a decision.


The EFL anti-vaxxers could become a more immediate
1840
s
Yes, we are again facing a serious medical crisis, but a number of factors suggest there may be some ground
that patients will need hospital treatment.
and
1841
Alison Johnstone, 60, can no longer bring herself to vote Conservative.
No
”

Some in the town are relieved that the political tide appears to be finally turning against the Tories.
1842
BBC Newsnight


“So I do think that the investigation has to get to the bottom, but I think that the evidence already is showing that Boris
1843
”

In a separate interview with BBC Breakfast, the Labour MP said that “if the rules are broken …


He told the BBC’s Newsnight there should be a “judge-led inquiry”.
1844
He said: “The Omicron variant has quickly become dominant, with cases increasing rapidly and the number of patients in our hospitals with Covid-19 on the rise again.
1845
coronavirus variant has been reported in 89 countries and the number of cases is doubling in 1.5 to three days in areas with community transmission, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said.
1846
the request as a result of the club not having enough players to field a team.
attend the fixture but acted as swiftly as possible this morning to minimise disruption.
1847
“Have a think about what the authentic characteristics of a really good Christmas are to you, and try and plan how you could recreate them if you have to stay at home,” she says.
1848
Omicron


“This is being felt not only with the increase in patient attendances (Covid admissions have increased a third over the last week)
1849
could
As a result, vaccine


But the early data suggests vaccine effectiveness
,
Azra
Eve


“The night slots are popular with shift workers and people
1850
29
Aston Villa’s manager said this week that potential signings’ protection against Covid-19 would “come into conversations” and his Arsenal
1851
–
,
Omicron
” She added that these were “relatively small increases in deaths”.


The latest information out of South Africa came as Omicron
1852
she asked people


Although the Scottish government is putting
”

As one former health adviser observes: “She is reaping the benefits of clear messaging.
1853
”

Thousands of Nigerians from around the globe make a triumphant return home every December not just to reunite with relatives and friends, but also to participate in one of the world’s biggest Christmas extravaganzas.
1854
His handling of the pandemic, which has claimed more than 618,000 lives in Brazil, is widely cited as a reason his popularity has plummeted this year.
1855
Since leaving he has been critical of the watchdog’s performance.


The decision to disband the CMA’s newly created coronavirus taskforce was a mistake too, he suggests.
investigations into
1856
In moves reminiscent of the environment for the 2020 season, the NFL has updated its protocols and advocated
Last week Lockett became the second player in franchise history with three straight
1857
-dose vaccine received emergency use


A CDC scientist said on Thursday that the rate of deaths from TTS did not decrease after the pause in April.
1858
headquarters


“The Met has received a significant amount of material in relation to the allegations reported in the media.
normally
investigate
1859
particularly
London


But for now, Sunak will be reluctantly forced back into spending mode, to prop up an economy battered yet again by Covid.
1860
“Covid cases are going through the roof at all Premier League clubs;
League: 26 December Burnley v Everton, Liverpool v Leeds, Wolves v Watford.
Liverpool players
1861
vaccine supply and rollout speed
to untangle, not least because many countries still haven’t received enough vaccines.


“In vaccination we often
1862
Ofsted also found that teacher absences related to Covid were having a profound effect on how schools function, with improvement plans and staff training being slowed
1863
The protracted
No


Then there was the photo of Johnson presiding over a third event – a Christmas quiz over Zoom
Conservative party
Bailey
1864
the prime minister, England’s chief medical officer urged the public: “Don’t mix with people you don’t have to.
”

Boris Johnson’s official
subsequently
Advisers are now running the show.
1865
No


The prime minister spent about 15 minutes with staff at the alleged social gathering on 15 May 2020, telling one aide inside
breaching
1866
on Vaccination
and
in
infections
, from the UK Health Security Agency, said vaccines recommended for pregnant women had a good safety record.
1867
“Significant numbers of women have come to serious harm as a result of this,” he said, blaming “myths” about vaccine safety in the group for the low uptake.
1868
“NSW Health considered that the ongoing spread of Covid-19 in the Newcastle area … presents too great a risk for the festival to take place this weekend,


The Hunter is the location of 633 of the record 1,742
1869
The party is the latest in a string of faux pas committed by the Dutch royal household during the pandemic, denting its popularity.
forced
1870
after discharge
They then looked at similar measures for 924 participants at about one year after discharge, 807 of whom had attended the previous follow-up.
1871
League One: 26 December Bolton v Morecambe, Crewe v Wigan, Portsmouth v Oxford, Sheffield Wednesday v Burton, Wimbledon v Charlton, Wycombe v Cambridge.
1872
Shortly before the event took place
The campaign is understood to have organised outside catering.
a week after the event took place.
-up message.
1873
Michael Chan Chi-wai, who led the work, said the result needed to be interpreted with caution because severe disease is determined not only by how quickly the virus replicates
1874
Barchester said it was aware of the new guidance but “limiting those coming into the home is right for the moment”.


“Given what government experts are calling a ‘tidal wave’ of the Omicron
1875
he will be the latest star player to leave at the end of the season, with the Tigers captain expected to return to his hometown club Bristol
1876
In hopes of mitigating any more spread, the Browns are holding three separate walk
tests to be eligible to participate in Saturday’s game.
1877
NHS
”

The NHS has been put on a crisis footing
In Wales, she said, some test sites were operating at 7% or 8% capacity, whereas in London they were “quite full”.
1878
will run a public consultation
Everyone agrees that the focus of the inquiry must be on saving lives in the future, and that means that those who have been most affected, including bereaved families, must be at its heart,” he said.
1879
Christmas get-togethers may need to be downsized as Omicron is now “very likely” to increase the death toll in Europe even if it proves to be less severe, the European Centre
1880
”

Dr Davidson recalled a paper she was recently sent “that shows that if you make an error of a newly learned word on a recall task, you’re more likely to keep making that same error (rather than a different error, or the correct pronunciation).
1881
BBC
”

Omicron
is already the dominant Covid variant in London and will soon account for nearly all infections.
–
Fewer people
with Omicron
1882
Information and
Amazon is supporting those groups.
“Amazon right now is the single largest purveyor of anti-vaccine books,”



Amazon journey.
1883
According to reports, the members included a 34-year
The report revealed
Germany have also expressed concern over their safety after
torches
1884
He has lost family to Covid, and we do have several vulnerable
Some parents are still very anxious about sending them to school.
According to
1885
Shaun Bailey has stepped down from an official role in the London assembly after


The Times described the event as “raucous”, saying that a door was damaged during
1886
Auckland’s lockdown:


Today’s the day the Auckland border is opened up.
—
Its international borders will probably reopen to the rest of the world in 2022.
1887
results prompted the company to seek authorization from the US Food and Drug


“This potential treatment could be a critical tool to help quell the pandemic.
1888
.
Mr
has
no
candidates
selection
Her most high-profile professional experience was as the former chief executive of the TalkTalk group.
basic
1889
The government is working with Royal Mail to free up more delivery slots


While the plan B measures have infuriated some
Tory backbenchers
1890
Rishi Sunak


This month, the government has signed contracts to buy 114m additional Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna doses for 2022 and 2023.
drinks
1891
BBC


He acknowledged there were “teething problems” after people queued for hours for vaccines.


“If you want to go into a crowded venue, I think most people would
1892
The first Covid rebellion

30 September 2020

The first signs of who would be the leaders of the anti-lockdown rebels in parliament began at the vote for the renewal of the
1893
,” a club statement said.
Elsewhere, Aston Villa and Brighton reported positive tests


The Premier League’s Covid results were compiled from a sample of 3,805, the largest total of the season.
1894
-based evidence has suggested that people reported they would be less likely to get vaccinated if Covid passports were introduced, while some
1895
He said Covid passports would be


Labour backed the government’s booster campaign and stopped short of calling for any new restrictions, with Keir
1896
Assuming there is a pause on Christmas Day, the teams will have to jab 1.24 million people a day by the end of the year.


He suggested the completion of the bulk of the booster jabs would
1897
The move is part of a drive to boost inoculation levels and increase the safety of large


The planned change to vaccination requirements for a Covid passport galvanised
1898
Premiership clubs are facing tighter Covid-19 restrictions
Football
week “circuit-breaker” was introduced in January after two rounds of European fixtures were wiped out.
1899
I
on Monday, in line with the new official advice: “Work from home if you can.
“At the start of my placement I was working from home full
”
1900
December 13, 2021

The graphic suggests that higher levels of partying could include


"We'll be coming through the cabin with a complimentary selection of light satire and ironic counterpoint.
1901
In some schools up to half the teaching workforce is unavailable for work due to Covid





He said: “It is already chaos in some schools as the Omicron wave hits.
1902
Experts have said Omicron
A similar scramble is likely to occur on Wednesday when the NHS booking system will open for everyone aged 18 plus.
1903
trusts has warned
, as Sajid Javid said that there had been no known deaths from the Omicron variant in English hospitals so far.
”

The “new national
1904
Critics have warned that up to 100 MPs could oppose plan B
Conservative MPs
Keir
Starmer confirmed on Sunday that Labour would
Other rebellions
1905
Studies show that a booster dose increases the levels of antibodies significantly above the level seen after two doses, which some
The immune
1906
shows Johnson with two aides who were dressed up with tinsel and a Santa hat
damage has already been done, with mutinous MPs furious at the
1907
Sheffield United’s clash with QPR at Bramall Lane on Monday has been postponed after the visitors returned a number of positive coronavirus cases and were left with with “insufficient numbers to fulfil
1908
cadre of libertarians
administration
of compulsory masks in more settings, but much more vocal about the idea of vaccine passports.
Conservative MPs
1909
”

The number of true Omicron cases that have not been discovered or sequenced yet is likely to be up to 10 times higher than the number of confirmed cases, Zahawi also said.
1910
flow testing applies to all fully vaccinated adults as well as to people aged between five and 18 and a half, regardless of their vaccination status.
1911
We are losing staff


Operators expect staff will have to pay tax and national
of dedicated work it is clear that care and support workers are being shortchanged.
1912
The Labour leader, who is also a former director of public prosecutions, said it was a “very serious” revelation and “hard to see” how Johnson’s attendance in a room with aides pictured wearing tinsel and a Santa hat was “compliant with the rules”.
1913
Presented with evidence like this, many scientists have warned that urgent action should now be taken to hold back infections while booster campaigns are accelerated and given time to take effect.
1914
”

Another leading backbencher said the numbers not supporting the government could even climb to over 100, which would be a severe dent
1915
Officials had been rehearsing with Stratton for planned broadcast press conferences (which then never happened because everyone concluded the idea would backfire) and wanted to see how she would react and what she would say if journalists ever found out.
1916
”

Boris Johnson pictured hosting Number 10 Xmas quiz ‘in breach of Covid Laws’https://t.co/wkZh77S0Gv pic.twitter.com/BYg7NJXOk3 —
Christmas
1917
Downing Street said it had cancelled


Meanwhile, two police officers have been disciplined for attending a party and breaking Covid rules.
1918
infections


Further research has suggested that cat and dog infections are relatively common.
relatively solitary creatures
to Sars-CoV-2.
1919
Researchers are exploring a number of hunches.
With Omicron, one possibility is that the virus lingered in an immunocompromised patient for months
1920
Boris Johnson is under growing pressure to confirm whether parties were held in his Downing Street flat
On Friday, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said Johnson was unfit for office, accusing
1921
The spokesperson said: “We do not think there is a need to cancel people coming together in hospitality venues like that.
whether


The pre
1922
Some of South Africa’s vaccine supply


“In many African countries we have some existing systems for vaccinations, but these require massive expansion and
1923
The investigation was subsequently widened to include another festive celebration and a reported staff leaving do.
had reportedly spoken at the event
1924
variant, but some areas are facing shortages
but of pharmacy staff to administer them.



”

She likened


“To be a health care provider that has provided 70% of a life
1925
In a small study, test subjects wore the masks, and after eight hours the filters were removed and sprayed with a chemical that glows under ultraviolet light if the virus is present.
1926
outrage over a video showing Downing Street staff joking about


Shortly after unveiling the review, Johnson announced he was introducing tougher “plan B”
1927
Hood said that about 24 staff of mixed seniority were present.


While some people tuned in virtually, others apparently wore Christmas jumpers and attended in person, being split up into groups of six.
1928
According to a South African private healthcare provider, the recent rise in infections
”

He said it appeared that the currently approved
The main observation
1929
Lego


As punishment, those on the Bailey campaign who were at the party were barred from the building on Matthew Parker Street for some time.
1930
to patients under 40 against official NHS guidance.
-risk groups in England are being sent text messages and emails by family
”

An NHS spokesperson said: “NHS sites are
1931
vaccine says he has since been jabbed and that the vaccine “is the best weapon we have against this terrible disease”.


The government is expanding its vaccine
1932
The event took place when London
BBC
”

Several of his own backbenchers raised concerns about whether people would stick to the new Covid rules during a heated session in the Commons on Wednesday.
1933
It is understood the governing body did not confirm the position on Wednesday night because it had not received written confirmation from Spurs.
Vitesse’s
1934
Tropical Medicine, said the Christmas party reports were “a betrayal of trust”.
The chief medical officer’s guidance should not be implicated in this at all.
1935
”

He added that the strategy adopted by the UK and others to accelerate booster programmes was “the right way to go”, with an extra dose appearing to compensate for the vaccine being less well matched to Omicron than to earlier
1936
–
Not at the change itself, but at how difficult the prime minister had made it for government to communicate it effectively.
people
events
1937
Omicron
immune
the scientists said it was highly likely that “very stringent measures” would be required to control growth and keep R below 1.
1938
However, she told the Helsingin
she was “glad I was at home” when she received a text message to isolate, and she cancelled her plans for the next day.
1939
the leftist politician, Mônica Francisco, one of many


However, health specialists fear that progress could be undone by Omicron and Bolsonaro’
s
1940
”

The UK secured 100m doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca


May 2021

The UK hit a milestone of having delivered more than 60 million coronavirus vaccine doses.
airlift
1941
“What we do know is that it’s looking like Omicron is more infectious and more transmissible.


“Seventy per cent or so of Omicron variants don’t have the S-gene dropout.
1942
The prime minister, Kim Boo-kyum, warned that hospitals were coming under intense pressure amid a rise in serious cases, days after


It would also mobilise more medical personnel to monitor
1943
2 December

More than half of the population of England, including those living in London, are moved into “high alert” tier
sized
outdoors
1944
”

Johnson himself says he is “satisfied” that no rules were broken.


But within hours a letter emerged from Johnson’s parliamentary private secretary, Trudy Harrison
1945
The discovery came as the prime minister told the cabinet that Omicron appeared to be more transmissible and officials conceded
PCR
Omicron
1946
”

Kluge also said vaccines should only be mandated at a population level as a last resort, adding that whatever measures countries were taking against Delta would also provide benefit against Omicron.
1947
two mouthfuls of a rice dish at a hotel at Heathrow on 3 December.
My anxiety levels went through the roof and I called the number they give you for a medic.
1948
In further comments at a virtual press briefing from Copenhagen, Kluge, a Belgian doctor and public health expert, also cautioned against rushing to making vaccination mandatory given the risk to public acceptance.
1949
Spielman would not be drawn on the number of children who have been made more vulnerable by the pandemic lockdowns, or on the length of time that will be needed for the education system in England to repair the damage.
1950
Disease
NCMD
– a first-of-its-kind initiative to collect comprehensive and timely data on every child death in England.


Researchers sought
1951
The finding has important implications for lower
to trigger an extremely potent Covid-19 vaccine response.
based, such as the Pfizer and Moderna jab
Innovations
1952
gatherings were held in Downing Street during
should
,
having previously responded by insisting: “All Covid rules were followed.
investigation
1953
We need a full independent investigation to get to the bottom of the £3.5bn of contracts handed out [through the fast track].”

Lobby
,
PPE
1954
The message came as ministers were told
effective at preventing infection with Omicron.
Nigeria will also be added to the travel red list on Monday.
Spi
BBC
1955
definition of madness
”

Tony Blair said the “failure to organise mass vaccination globally has been a huge problem right throughout this crisis”.
1956
However, Raab, who is also the justice secretary, said the police “don’t normally look back and investigate things that have taken place a year ago”
1957
contact.


But there is a difference in the personnel around
this time there is also a significant difference in the public mood.



events
1958
Two hippos at Antwerp zoo in Belgium have tested positive for Covid-19 in what could be the first reported cases in the species, staff said.
1959
”

How likely is infection with Omicron to lead
because Omicron has not been known for long enough to determine its ability to cause serious illness.
1960
”

No 10 believes the actions over the past week showed a recognition of where ministers needed to move quickly, without an overreaction when evidence of the threat is still unknown.
1961
he had been at the company long enough to escape the axe himself, under BA’s last-in, first-out policy.


Her line of work involves long hours –
Organisation
1962
Canada has discovered a total of 15 cases of the new Omicron variant.
Toronto then reported its first three cases of Omicron
Officials say
1963
.
No
regulations


He told Sky News: “
”

On a trip to North Shropshire, Johnson echoed his chairman, saying there was no need for cancellations.
1964
Downing Street
I


James Rose from Barnet.
it was, lying there overnight with children’s stencils on the walls, with men coughing and dying.
1965
But it may also look at the impact of lockdown on the local safeguarding arrangements.
Domestic
for England, Anne Longfield, warned just six months into the pandemic
1966
”

The chief scientist at the World Health Organization (WHO) urged people not to panic, saying it was impossible to predict whether Omicron would become the dominant variant worldwide.
1967
In Germany, for example, many hospitals are under severe strain while
Hopkins University


“The Greek approach of making [Covid] vaccination mandatory
1968
The Twitter post featured a silicone male chest half-body suit, complete with fake arms and neck, that was on sale on Amazon for €488 (£416).
1969
We want to be careful before we sound the alarm,” said Rachel Abbott, a spokesperson for Yuba county, where 46% of residents are vaccinated.
unvaccinated we will get new variants,” Garcia said.
hospitals
1970
”

She said the best way to keep children like Arthur safe was to intervene early when warning signs were visible


She alerted children’s social
1971
Now the village and its workforce are waiting eagerly for the market to revive.
A recent ministry of home affairs report said that the village would be developed as a “special zone” for manufacturing.
1972
For TB, that urgency is not there.
disease


Masini is aghast at what he sees an imbalance of attention and political will between Covid and TB.
”

Back in Kibera, where poor and cramped housing allows the disease to thrive, Anne Munene, project officer for Amref Health Africa, sits at a table outside a TB clinic.
1973
In Auckland, nature was healing.
Jacinda
Ardern
The red, orange and green levels depend on vaccination rates and the level of strain on the health system, but even at red
,
”

The day marks a key milestone in the country’s transition from using lockdowns a primary public health strategy to relying on vaccination instead.
1974
-based Cov-Boost trial
immune
When the Pfizer booster was given following two Pfizer shots, antibody levels rose more than eightfold.
AstraZeneca
1975
concerns over player safety at next month’s Africa Cup of Nations.


The European Club
been
proposals and take into account the voice of club football and the ECA in any decisions taken.
1976
Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a statement that “we should assume” there is community spread of Omicron in the city.


The US recorded its first confirmed case of the Omicron variant Wednesday.
1977
The move by European Professional Club
Scarlets had earlier urged them
”

Teams who are unable to fulfil
EPCR has got to look at player welfare here.
1978
The company added that some of the 200 fake accounts that boosted the Wilson Edwards content within hours of it being posted had profile pictures created by an artificial intelligence programme.
1979
Speaking on ITV’s Peston, the work and pensions secretary, Thérèse Coffey, said: “
danger at Christmas
”

“This is not a matter of being the fun police,” he added.
1980
shows 36% are concerned about their work if they take time off or ask their employer to do more to protect them from Covid.
.
because of their work.
1981
A spokesperson for the company told the BBC: “Although the research is not definitive, it offers interesting insights and AstraZeneca is exploring ways to leverage these findings as part of our efforts to remove this extremely rare side effect.
1982
Britain and the United States have both expanded their booster programs in response to the new variant, while Australia is reviewing its schedule.
1983
that a former neighbour in Hancock’s constituency had been awarded work supplying the government with tens of millions of vials
Labour party chair
1984
Diseases in South Africa
African countries had created problems in shipping samples of the new variant to health experts for analysis.
Omicron
1985
to concentrate on vaccinations, suggesting he was willing to drop demands on them to see patients face to face.
– video

“It is true to say that the health service is under immense
1986
Organization
,


He also pointed out that people from countries with low levels of vaccination could be excluded from emigrating.
unemployed
1987
variant says he believes he caught the virus when he was in London for a major medical conference attended by more than
1,200
got infected
Hydro
1988
table below, you can find out the number of vaccine doses per 100 people in each country to date.
Differences in data collection and publishing schedules between countries may lead
1989
, we need to be even more vigilant in decreasing severe episodes of Covid-19,” said Mainous.
convey the full picture of the impact of Covid-19.
1990
The move is part of an enhanced winter Covid strategy that the Biden administration


From Wednesday, a vaccination will be required for travel in and out of Canada.
Presse
1991
BBC
”

Others called for more clarity around advice.
Michael Kill, chief executive of Night Time Industries Association, said venues were faced with “another poorly
1992
countries
EU legislators, adding that cooperation with the medical industry was already taking place to prepare for such an eventuality.
Omicron
1993
on 12 December in the Champions Cup, with European officials having already made clear that clubs unable to raise a team will be forced to forfeit their games.
1994
The second measure, which will force close
regulations
Omicron
” but that it was sad to be debating the measures “after the fact”, adding parliamentary
1995
Trevor Noah returned to the post-Thanksgiving Daily Show with concerning global health news: the discovery of Covid’s Omicron variant, which preliminary evidence suggests is more transmissible than previous variants.
“I mean, how did that happen after everything we did?


One survey found that 20% of shoppers plan to order more gifts in case some orders are delayed or canceled.
1996
The prime minister urged
“Right now, our best single defence against Omicron is to get vaccinated and to get boosted,” the prime minister said.
1997
”

‘The rollout is obviously affecting quite a few people’

Patricia from West Sussex.
”

Hannah says her GP surgery has been unable
”

One of her main
.
1998
“We’re not doing nearly enough genomic sequencing


“We should be flooding the zone,” he said, with both vaccines and PCR tests that can detect the variant.
1999
.
About 65% are not vaccinated
and
Covid
Delta (first detected in India) is even more transmissible and deadly, and yet two of the cardinal
2000
He added: “
planned
operations
”

For now, though, Hopson is confident that hospitals can cope if Omicron does wreak havoc.


She said: “
2001
on Monday, with fallout from the postponement of two rounds of fixtures in the South African


In domestic football, the Premier League remain confident of the schedule continuing
2002
New Zealand said it would restrict travel from nine southern African nations, but insisted it would press ahead with plans to reopen internally after months of shutdown.
2003
meaning antibodies produced by vaccines
or past infection may be significantly less effective.


South African scientists were the first to report the Omicron
2004
internationally, posing a very high global risk of infection surges that could have severe consequences in some areas.
against immunity induced by vaccines
2005
Education
If schools are to maintain safety during the remainder of this term, the government will need to accept that its messaging needs to be stronger.
2006
The Essex case is linked to one in Nottingham and travel in southern Africa.


Official data shows turnaround times for PCR tests have been getting worse in England.
2007
A spokesperson for the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee, a national police force, said the couple had been taken off the plane “almost silently and without resistance”.
2008
nations
On Friday, the US president, Joe Biden, called for WTO members to take this step following the emergence of the Omicron variant.
Nurses
2009
G7
was first discovered in South Africa and in an effort to stop transmission, countries have moved swiftly to re-impose travel restrictions.


The head of the World Health
